 The southern Gothic writers often criticized African-American characters in their writing as fully fledged not portrayed. Many critics feel as if these writers dropped back to stereotypes, prejudices or specific, when I try to depict its characters instead of creating a rich and diverse people. Even authors who to craft appealing and rich black figures in their writing short yet because of their inability to separate from their characters from the larger white tradition that the writers write try dropping the authors can portray the African-American characters well, but in a white context. Two authors "southern Gothic" who accused the stereotypical portrayal of African-American characters are both "o" Flannery? Connor and William Faulkner. In their writings, both landscape photography rich South, where she appeared deep interaction with characters in the landscape that surrounds them. Pantaloon in black with Faulkner In the short stories and you can? t be a poorer than death by O?Connor, the authors attempt to portray African-American characters in the throws of grief after the loss of a loved one. In these works, as the authors of the ability to depict the grief of their characters; because of this, the characters appear as acting contrary to the natural world around them. The issue that arises is that you for which authors white understand the African-American pain, the authors should create characters that cannot exist in harmony with the natural world in which they live and ultimately must be separated from a larger understanding of their own tradition. Because white authors cannot understand African-American grief they cause their characters to suffer a disconnect from nature. When American writing, and more importantly the southern Gothic genre to write it and explain the nature of the Union is required to remember. It is used, and the fears of the author and character and history to give, and sometimes functions as secondary characters. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner knows how nature works in the history of the South, and because he saw the gap between the ideas of planting and the natural world, the African-American is then perceived as. This issue occurs because the African Americans are so intertwined with the country of the South. They worked the land and create prosperity for South farm, because their bondage had been disconnected from the work they were doing, so from nature. They were the men who worked the land, but their work is mired in the history of the South. Since Faulkner cares so much for the relevance of history for the stories, and sees the bands nature, it seems as if he would need to understand that race is much more a problem of the group, and create a group. Race may affect the individual, but it's really a problem with wider, there is everything, including soil.  Faulkner saw African American characters and people related in large part due to the great importance that he placed on the history.
