 Writers often criticized the southern Gothic is not African-American characters developed in them. Many visitors feel as though these writers plan specific biases or stereotypes, trying to describe people and figures instead of create. Writers write from their characters in sympathetic Kraft and black figures, writing, not separately from the great white tradition for something rich to try still fall short author; manages to portray the African American characters in the context of the author of white. The two Southern Gothic authors, who has been accused of this stereotyped portrayal of the African-American characters are both Flannery on?Connor and William Faulkner. They write they both where characters draws a rich southern published in the deep interaction between landscape and scenery of the nature that surrounds them. In the new Pantaloon in black by Faulkner and you can? t be the poor than the dead by O?Connor, the authors attempt to depict African American characters in the throws of grief after the loss of a loved one. In these works, both authors struggle with the ability to portray the pain of his characters; because of this, the characters are shown as I acting out and fought with the natural world that surrounds them. The theme that emerges is that the authors understand white Afro-mountain, authors need to create characters that cannot exist in harmony with the natural world in which they live and ultimately must separate them from the more traditional understanding of yourself. Because white authors cannot understand African-American grief they cause their characters to suffer a disconnect from nature. When writing American writing and more importantly land need to remember heart of the genre in nature is to interpret the southern Gothic style. It is used to convey the concerns of the author and the character and the history and sometimes functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner knows how to work in the history of the South, nature and because he felt that the gap between the ideas of the farms and the natural world, then it is African Americans. This occurs because the Afro-Americans so interwoven with each other with the country of the South. She worked the land and the prosperity of the South on the plantations, yet because of their bondage that they were disconnected from the work that they were doing, and thus created from nature. They were the men who worked the land, but their work is mired in the history of the South. As Faulkner cares so much for the importance of history for the stories and the connectedness to nature has it looks, how it seems as if he would understand that race is much more a problem of the Group and one group to create. Race may affect the person, but this is really a very large scale soil everything including a ubiquitous,.  FAULKNER saw African-American characters and people together in large part because of the importance, the he's history.
