 Southern Gothic authors are often-criticized appearance not African American characters as fully developed in her writing. Many critics feel as though these writers on specific prejudices, stereotypes, or fall back when you try to depict their characters instead of creating rich and diverse people. Even authors who attempt to craft a rich black digits of their comprehension and writing still disappoint due to their inability to separate their characters from the larger white tradition of writers from writing; The authors managed to portray the African-American characters, well, but within the white. Two southern Gothic authors who have accused of this stereotypical image of African-American characters are both Flannery O?Connor and William Faulkner. In their southern landscapes, rich in both consolidating which characters interact with the landscape that surrounds them deeply. Pantaloon in black and you can in the short stories, Faulkner? t is any Poorer than dead on?Connor, the authors attempt to portray African-American characters in the throws of grief after losing loved ones. In these works characters; sad capacity and resistance by both authors, characters show; as a delegate, and the natural world around them. Appears on the theme author for white, I want to know sorrow of Americans of African descent, the author must create a character that cannot be there with them live, and must ultimately separating them about their traditional natural harmony in the world. Because white authors cannot understand them will cause them to suffer broken character Afro-Americans sad naturally. When interpreting the American writing, and important Southern Gothic, writing, it is necessary to remember the Central land and the nature of the genre. It serves to the fears of the author and character and history, and sometimes even transfer functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner knows how nature functions in the history of the South, and because he sees the gap between ideas and the natural world, an African-American then perceived as. This is because Americans are so intertwined with the lands of the South. They worked the land and created the prosperity of southern plantations, yet because of their slavery, that they have been disconnected from the work they were doing, and thus of the nature. They were the men, the it worked, but their work is in the history of the South. Due to the fact that so much of the relevance of past stories, Faulkner cares and sees ties to nature, it seems, as if they would understand that the race is much more of a problem, and construct group. Race may affect humans, but it's really a problem of a much greater scale, pervading everything, including into the soil.  Faulkner saw characters African Americans and persons as interconnected in large part because of the enormous importance it has developed on the history.
