 Gothic writers often criticized for not photographing prominent South African Americans developed fully in their writing. Many critics feel as if these writers fall into stereotypes or specific prejudices, trying to describe his characters instead of creating rich and diverse people. Even writers who are trying to craft the sympathetic and rich black figures still fall short in their writing because of their inability to separate their personalities more white tradition that is writing the book; the book management African-American characters photography well, but in the context of white. Two stereotypical depictions of African Americans of this character has been blamed southern Gothic of Flannery O both?? Connor and William Faulkner. In their writing, they both portray the rich landscapes of the South, where characters are represented in a deep engagement with the nature that surrounds them. Can you and William Faulkner short stories Black Black is?? than any Poorer O dead is a t? Connor, author of drawing characters throw African-American of grief after the loss of a loved one and try to. These jobs, the two authors the ability to struggle for consolidating their characters grief; For this reason, the characters appear as a complex character and the natural world around them. Themes that are emerging to understand African American grief, white writers writers cannot exist in character that they live, and eventually they separate themselves from an older tradition, it is necessary to understand the natural world should be in harmony with that build. Because editors do not understand grief white African-American American cause their characters suffer disconnection from nature. When interpreting United States writing and more importantly the southern Gothic writing it is important to remember that with land and nature Sports Centre. It is used to convey the author's anxieties, character, history, and sometimes even a minor character like functions. Faulkner was a traditional familiar. Faulkner's know the function of the natural history of South, because he saw the plantation of the ideological divide between the natural world and was then considered to be Afro-Americans. Because African Americans have intertwined the South land. They were working in the country and the prosperity of the South on the plantations for their servitude, from work, what did you and thus inherently separately created. Land reclamation of their men, but they work in southern history. As Faulkner's concern for so many stories, historical significance, believes it has a natural relationship, it seems he will understand that issues of race are more set, a set of constructs. Competition may affect individuals, but it really is a much larger, across all content, including soil problems. Faulkner see African-American characters and spatial liquidation because of huge importance is placed on history.
