 Southern Gothic writers are often criticized for not portraying African-Americans as fully developed characters in their writing. Many critics believe, as if these writers on stereotypes, or specific errors when trying to depict their characters instead of creating rich and diverse people. Even authors who attempt to Nice crafts and rich black figures in his writings still fall short due to their inability to separate his characters of the largest white tradition that writers write the authors manage to portray black characters, but in a context of white. Two southern Gothic authors who have accused of this stereotypical image of African-American characters are both Flannery O?Connor and William Faulkner. In their writings, they depict the rich landscapes of the South, where the characters are presented in the deep interaction with the natural scenery that surrounds them. Pantaloon in black by Faulkner short stories and you can? T o be any Poorer than dead? by Connor, a loss of African-American writers love the characters of grief in the attempt to portray throws. In these works, both authors the ability to portray their characters wrestle with grief; for this reason, the characters are displayed; as the natural world around them, and incompatible. Authors understand the sadness of African-American theme white authors appearing in character that cannot be to create, in harmony with the world of nature must be separated from their lives and ultimately greater understanding of their own tradition, it is. White authors understand the African American grief so they suffer from a disconnection from the natural causes of their characters. When interpreting the American writing, and most importantly "southern Gothic" type it is necessary to remember the centrality of land and nature in this genre. It works to convey the concerns of the author, character, history, and even sometimes functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner knows how nature works in the history of the South, and because the gap between the world of ideas and natural plantation the then perceived as, African American. This behavior occurs because African-Americans carrots and lands in the South. They worked the land, created the prosperity of southern plantations, because of their broken bondage, they work from nature. They were men who worked the land, but their work has been bogged down in the history of the South. And since seeing the tie and caring so relevant stories, Faulkner's history, nature, he is a problem with many groups in the race and will look to understand the construction of the group. Race may affect the individual, but it is really a problem of a much larger scale, penetrating everything, including the bottom.  Faulkner saw African-American characters and people like interconnected in large part because of the great importance that he spent on history.
