 The southern Gothic writers are often criticized for not portraying a African American characters as fully developed in his writings. Many critics feel as though these writers on specific prejudices, stereotypes, or fall back when you try to depict their characters instead of creating rich and diverse people. Authors even to try to craft a rich black figures in support of their still mathzit because of their character to separate the large white tradition of writers write; The authors manage to describe the characters well, but in the context of African-American and white. Are two Gothic authors from the South who have been accused of this stereotypical image of African American characters both Flannery O?Connor and William Faulkner. They portray In their writing, where characters are both rich South landscapes featured in deep interaction with the natural landscape that surrounds them. In short stories Pantaloon in black Faulkner, and can you? t be any Poorer than dead O? Connor, authors try to portray African-American characters in the throws of grief after the loss of a loved one. In these works, the authors faced with the capacity to represent the mourning of their characters; for this reason, the characters are; as acting on and in contradiction with the natural world that surrounds them. The issue that arises is, that for white authors, African American grief to understand, which can be signs that are present, authors not must create in harmony with the natural world in which they live, and must ultimately separates rates are of a larger tradition. Because the white authors may not include African American grief they cause to their characters suffer a disconnection from nature. To interpret Scripture American and most important of the southern Gothic writing it is necessary to remember the centrality of land and the nature of the genre. It serves to the fears of the author and character and history, and sometimes even transfer functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner knows how the nature in the history of the South, and he sees the gap between the ideas of the plantation and the natural world, then becomes the African-American as perceived. This occurs because Afro-Americans land so with the southern country. The shackles were disconnected from nature like this and prosperity of the land and the South were still work work on a farm, they create. They were the men who worked on the land, but their work is the history of the South. nanka Because Faulkner cares so much for the relevance of history stories and sees the character relationships, it seems as if he understands that the race issue is much larger groups and group build. Effects may likely give race, individual large problem really permeates everything including the soil much. Faulkner African American characters and people as most of the mutual connection he history on huge seen from the importance.
