 The southern Gothic writers often criticized for not portraying the characters of African-Americans as fully developed in their writing. Writers such as these, or on specific biases, stereotypes and depict their characters rather than creating multiple people while trying to feel many critics fall back. Also authors who try, craft appealing and rich drop their inability to separate their characters from the larger white tradition, which the authors work; black numbers in their writing still short because of the authors manage the African-American characters well, but to represent in a white border. Two southern Gothic authors were accused of playing the stereotypical African-American characters are two American o Flannery O'Connor, William Faulkner?. They portray In their writing, where characters are both rich South landscapes featured in deep interaction with the natural landscape that surrounds them. Short stories black Pantaloon, Faulkner? T be any Poorer than dead by O? Connor, the authors try to lactiir bazrikot of grief after the African-American characters lost a loved one. In these works both authors struggle with the ability to portray the sadness of their characters; because of this, the characters appear to be; If act out and runs counter to the natural world around them. The theme that emerges is that of white authors to understand African American grief, the authors characters that do not exist in harmony with the natural world in which they live, and must ultimately separating from a larger tradition of the concept itself. Because white writers African-American grief they suffer from a disconnected by nature caused can't figure out their characters. When interpreting American writing, and southern Gothic writing need to be aware of the centrality of land and the genre. It is conveyed to the author and characters and history, anxiety and sometimes functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner know how nature works in the history of the South, and because he sees the gap between the ideas of the plantation and the natural world, the African-American than considered. This occurs because African-Americans are so intertwined with the lands of the South. They worked the land and South of the gardens, yet they work their bond, and thus they were disconnected because of nature. They were the men who worked the land, but their work is mired in the history of the South. Faulkner care so the relevance of history to stories, and sees the links, it is the nature, it would seem that he would understand that the race is much more a problem of group, and build a group. Race may affect the individual, but it is really a problem of a much larger scale, permeates everything, including the ground.  Faulkner African American characters and people in large parts of the huge importance that as he put on since.
