 Southern Gothic writer in writing as the African American character often criticized. Many critics feel as though these writers retreat to stereotypes or prejudices, trying to depict specific characters instead of creating a rich and diverse people. Even authors who are trying to craft a sympathetic and rich that black figures in their writing still fail due to their inability to separate them from the large white characters that writers are writing traditions from; The authors managed to portray the African American characters, but with a white background. Two southern Gothic writers, who portrays the stereotypical African-American characters were charged both Flannery o Connor and William Faulkner are?. In writing, they both portray the rich countries of the South, where are the best characters in the deep interaction with natural scenery that surrounds them. Faulkner's short stories and Pantaloon in black you can do? Any Poorer than t o die? Conner, the author tries to grief after loss-throwing character that portrayed African-Americans. These works depict their characters grief with the ability to both writers struggle; Because of this, the characters are shown; The natural world around them and act as obstacles. The theme that emerges is that authors white understand the African American grief, authors must create characters that cannot exist in harmony with the natural world in which they live and have separate them tradition to understand ultimately. Because white authors I can't understand the African-American characters suffering from grief, causing them to disconnect from nature. When interpreting the American writing and more importantly the southern Gothic writing that it is necessary to remember at the heart of the Earth and the nature of the genre. It expressed the concerns of the author and character and history, and sometimes a secondary character to act as well. FAULKNER is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner know how nature works in the history of the South, because he sees the gap between the ideas of a natural world, African-American then caught. This occurs because the Afro-Americans so interwoven with each other with the country of the South. She worked the land and the prosperity of the South on the plantations, yet because of their bondage that they were disconnected from the work that they were doing, and thus created from nature. They were the men who worked the land, but their work is mired in the history of the South. Since Faulkner cares so much for the relevance of history of the stories, and the dependencies that the nature, he seems to understand that race is much more a problem for the group, build a group. Race may affect the individual but it is really an issue of much larger scale, that everything, including the ground.  Faulkner saw the African-American characters, and largely due to the huge importance of humans as linked, which he gave to the History.
