 The southern Gothic writers are often criticized for not portraying African-Americans as a fully developed characters in their writing. Many critics feel that these authors on stereotypes or certain prejudices fall back if you try their characters instead of rich and diverse people to represent. Even authors who to craft appealing and rich black figures in their writing short yet because of their inability to separate from their characters from the larger white tradition that the writers write try dropping the authors can portray the African-American characters well, but in a white context. Two southern Gothic authors who were charged with the stereotypical images of African American characters are both Flannery O? Connor and William Faulkner. In her letter signs them both rich southern landscapes, where featured characters in deep interaction with the natural landscape that surrounds them. Pantaloon in black with Faulkner In the short stories and you can? t be a poorer than death by O?Connor, the authors attempt to portray African-American characters in the throws of grief after the loss of a loved one. In these works both authors struggle with the ability to portray the sadness of their characters; because of this, the characters appear to be; If act out and runs counter to the natural world around them. The theme that emerges is that of white authors to understand African American grief, the authors characters that do not exist in harmony with the natural world in which they live, and must ultimately separating from a larger tradition of the concept itself. Da white authors, African American grief cannot understand they introduce to suffer their characters separate from nature. When interpreting written American and most important Southern Gothic written that it is necessary to recall the centrality of the Earth and the nature of this genus. It serves to convey the concerns of the author and the character and the history and sometimes even functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner know how nature works in the history of the South, and because he sees the gap between the ideas of the plantation and the natural world, the African-American than considered. This occurs because African Americans are so intertwined with the Southland. They worked the land and created a prosperous southern plantations, but because of their slavery, that they were disconnected from the work they do and thus by nature. They were the men who worked the land, but their work is mired in the history of the South. Since Faulkner cares so much for the relevance of history for the stories, and sees the bands nature, it seems as if he would need to understand that race is much more a problem of the group, and create a group. Race may affect the individual, but it is really a problem of a much larger scale, pass through everything, including the Earth.  Saw Faulkner African-American characters and people are in large part because of the huge importance that puts them history.
