 Southern Gothic writers often has been criticized for not depicting African American characters as the full development of their writing. Many critics in rich stereotypes or particular bias in these writers feel like fallback instead of creating a diverse people, trying to portray their characters. Even the authors trying to trade friendly and rich in black figures in their writings fall always short because of their inability to separate their characters of white tradition more great writers write the authors arrive to depict characters African-American, but rather in the context of white. Two southern Gothic authors this stereotypical representation of African-American characters are charged with both Flannery O?Connor and William Faulkner. In his writings, both depict rich landscapes of the South, where characters are presented in deep interaction with the natural landscape that surrounds them. In tales black Pantaloon by Faulkner and you could? t be any Poorer than dead or?Connor, the authors attempt to portray African American characters on the releases of mourning after the loss of a loved one. Function describing the sadness of their characters in these works, both authors struggle; characters appear for this; and acting, conflict with the nature around the world as a. Topic that appears is that the authors of the white paper to understand the grief African-American, you must create characters that cannot exist in harmony with the natural world in which he lives, and must be separated from the larger tradition of understanding themselves eventually. Because white authors cannot understand African-American pain causing his characters undergo a disconnection from nature. In the interpretation of American writing, and more importantly southern Gothic writing it is necessary to remember the centrality of land and nature to the genre. Provides also functions as a secondary character that tell history author and personality and anxiety. Faulkner is not a stranger to this tradition. So know how natural features in the history of Faulkner's South, he idea of the plantation, and look at the gap between the world of nature, African-Americans [as is perceived. This occurs because African-Americans are so interlinked with land to the South. They reclaim the land and creating a prosperous plantations in the South, but also because they they were disconnected from their work, from the bondage of nature. They were people who worked the land, their work has fallen into in the history of the Korea. Since the relevance of history to Faulkner stories, care for and it looks as though the nature of the relationship, that race a lot more group problem, and it appears a group of construction will understand. Race may affect the individual, but it really is a problem of one much larger scale, pervading everything, including the floor.  Faulkner saw black characters and people like interconnected in large part because of the enormous importance that made history.
