 Southern Gothic writers are often criticized for not portraying African-Americans as fully developed characters in their writing. Many critics feel as though these writers fall back on stereotypes or bias, when trying to visualize their characters instead of creating rich and diverse people. Even if the author tries to sympathy and a variety of black in their writing still fell short because they cannot be character to separate the large white traditional writers; the author managed to shape the character of African-Americans, all right, but in the context of white. Two Gothic authors of the South that have been accused of this stereotypical portrayal of African American characters are two Flannery O?O'Connor and William Faulkner. In his writing, both of them depicted a wealth of landscapes in the South, where the characters features deeper interaction with the surrounding natural scenery. In short stories bantlon in black Faulkner and you can? The ATI Puryear of dead before o? Connor, the book is an attempt to portray African-American characters in the cast of grief after the loss of a loved one. The struggle both authors in this work, with the ability to portray sadness of their characters; for this reason, the characters appear to be; they behave outside and disagreement with the natural world around them. A theme that emerges is that the authors understand the African-American authors, white must create characters that sadness cannot exist in harmony with the natural world in which they live, and they eventually separated from the larger tradition of understanding yourself. Because white authors may not be able to understand Asian-grief they have caused their characters suffer a disconnect from nature. Write in the interpretation of the American, and especially southern Gothic writing, it is necessary, remember the centrality of land and nature to the genre. It serves and to express the concern of the author and the nature and history and sometimes even functions as a secondary character. Faulkner is no stranger to this tradition. Because Faulkner knows how nature works in the history of the South, and because the gap between the ideas of plantation and the natural world he sees, feels so the African American. This is because African Americans are so intertwined with the lands of the South. They worked the land and creates the prosperity of southern plantations, yet because of his captivity were disconnected from the work they were doing and therefore nature. They were men who worked the land, but their work is steeped in the history of the South. From Faulkner concerned both about the relevance of the story of stories and see the links with nature, it seems as if he would understand that race is much more a problem of group, and build a group. Race may affect the individual, but it is really a problem of a much larger scale, penetrating everything, including the bottom.  Faulkner saw African-American characters and people like interconnected in large part because of the great importance that he spent on history.
