 While the introduction to the Middle East in international relations, in the social sciences, quantitative prediction, precision impossible to force Fred Halliday on that it actually works to identify and interpret patterns in current world events to claim such fields. Halliday also assessment extent, future plans and "their life meaning" deemed necessary by the people With these general parameters in mind, one can approach better predict the political future; rather difficult to predict the exact figures for oil exports and defense spending, falls on the identification of broader trends and employ to create a rough sketch of the future. However, outside of the current pattern extrapolation, itself, is lack of forecasts. Recognition of reality is one example held defied widely to a reversal of the fate of the Islamic revolution of the Iran swift is fleeting. Most likely a better one that combines an extrapolation of present situation in comparison with other relevant historical scenarios. This approach, which corresponds to the "Historical Sociology" embraced by Halliday, joins the story (a case-specific approach to ideographic) with theory (the nomothetic alternative, try to take the case at hand in a broader context) to try a more accurate assessment of the future. Following the invasion of Iraq provided an excellent opportunity to use this methodology to assess possible future. 3 Years ago in provide a pattern to start the political situation in Iraq 2003, enough time to emerge since the early United States-led invasion. A new Iraqi Government has begun to work, but the revolt against both the u.s. occupation and the domestic security apparatus remains. Although this trend simply cannot predict the future, completely ignore Iraq current social and political reality are dangerous shortsightedness. In addition, the invasion led by the United States also be carefully a series of interventions of great power in the Middle East. A huge amount of literature exists that explores the involvement of external forces (generally American, Soviet, British or French military and intelligence) in the Middle East Affairs in great detail. While the future of post invasion Iraq will surely be largely influenced by the particular nature of that country's experiences in the aftermath of the invasion and the end of the totalitarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and that of Afghanistan, Iran, Egypt and other States can be used as a part of a more complete understanding of the direction in which Iraq is headed at the moment. While it may be impossible to formulate with absolute certainty that the reality of Iraq will be in ten or fifteen years, the aforementioned analytical tools can make sorting through the opposite futures more productive activities. Growing domestic dissatisfaction with the war effort, despite a full u.s. withdrawal from Iraq will likely not even ten to fifteen year range,. This fact is supported by the presence of Americans in South Korea, the Balkans, and even stable in Western Europe.   
