 While emphasizing the inability to make accurate quantitative predictions in the social sciences, in the introduction to the Middle East in International Relations, Fred Halliday says that it is indeed the task of these fields to identify and interpret the noteworthy current patterns in global events. Halliday also recognizes that a degree of appreciation of the future is necessary for planning and for the people "to make sense of their lives". With this broad parameters in mind, may be a better approach to predict the political future; instead of struggling to predict the exact figures for oil export or defence spending, the emphasis should fall on the wider identify trends and make them a rough sketch of the future in service. Extrapolation of the current patterns, however, is, by itself, an inadequate Predictor; the rapid reversal of fortune in Iran after the Islamic revolution is just one example among several in which reality defied widespread perceptions. A better approach is rather one that combines the extrapolation of the current situation with relevant comparisons with other historical scenarios. This approach, similar to the "Historical Sociology" advocated by Halliday, joins narrative (an ideographic approach of specific cases) with the theory (the closed alternative, trying to incorporate the case at hand in a broader context) to try a more accurate assessment of the future. In the case of Iraq post invasion is an excellent opportunity to employ this approach for future evaluation. Three years have elapsed since the first conducted by the United States invasion of the Iraq in 2003, providing sufficient time for the models to began to emerge in the political situation. A new Iraqi Government began to function, but rest the insurrection against the American occupation and the internal security apparatus. Although these current trends not fully predict the future, is if you want to completely ignore the current social and political reality of Iraq dangerously myopic. In addition, the u.s.-led invasion also fits neatly in a series of great power intervention in the Middle East. The massive body of literature exists, which examines the involvement of external forces (American, British, or French, Soviet General of the army and intelligence) in Middle East Affairs in great detail. While the Iraq war certainly largely influenced the future one are can be used by the specific nature of that country's experiences in the course of the invasion and the end of Saddam Hussein's totalitarian regime, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and the Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt or other countries as a component you are understanding of the direction in which Iraq is currently headed. Although it might be impossible to articulate with absolute certainty what will the reality of Iraq in ten to fifteen years, the above analysis instruments can make sorting through the counterfactual futures a more productive effort. Despite growing domestic dissatisfaction with the war effort, the complete American withdrawal from Iraq is unlikely, even in the range of ten to fifteen years. This fact is supported by the continued presence of American troops in South Korea, the Balkans, and even in stable Western Europe.   
