 While the emphasis on the impossibility of making precise, quantitative predictions in the social sciences, in the introduction to the Middle East in international relations, Fred Halliday claims that it is the task of this remarkable power to identify areas and interpret patterns in events in the world. Halliday also recognizes that a degree of assessment of the future is necessary for planning and for people to "make sense of their lives." With these broad parameters in mind one can better predict the political future of the approach; rather than trying to predict precise figures for oil exports, or defense spending, focus should fall to identify broader trends and using them to create a sketch of the future. However, the extrapolation of current trends is, by itself, an insufficient indicator; the rapid reversal of fortune in Iran after the Islamic revolution is just one example among many who challenge the widespread perception reality. Instead, the best approach is one that combines the extrapolation of current situation with comparisons to other historical scenarios. Supported by Halliday and the social history of this approach is similar to theory of narrative (ideographic approach-specific case) (hand if incorporate the larger context Humanities alternative, trying to) accurately assess the future joins the. In the case of the post-invasion Iraq represents a great opportunity to employ this approach to the evaluation of possible futures. Three years have passed since the first US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, providing enough time for patterns begin to appear in the political situation. A new Iraq Government had begun to operate, but opposes United States occupation and internal security apparatus, the rebels remained. While these trends fully cannot predict the future entirely ignore the social realities and current Iraq policy is dangerously short-sighted. In addition, the US-led invasion too neatly in the Middle East in a series of great power interference fit. A massive body of literature exists, explores in great detail the Middle East Affairs by outside forces (General United States, the Soviet Union, United Kingdom or France's military and intelligence) involvement. While the future of the Iraq followed the invasion will be largely influenced by the particular nature of this experience of the country following the invasion and the end of the totalitarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and that of the Iran, the Afghanistan, the Egypt or other States can be used as a component of more comprehensive understanding of the direction in which Iraq is currently headed. Although it may be impossible to articulate what the reality will be the Iraq in ten to fifteen years, with absolute certainty can the above analytical tools a productive endeavor make sorting through the counterfactual futures. Despite the growing domestic dissatisfaction with the war effort is a full American withdrawal from Iraq unlikely, even in the range of ten-to-fifteen-year. This fact is confirmed by the presence of American troops in South Korea, the Balkans and even stable in Western Europe.   
