 But emphasizing the inability to make accurate, quantitative predictions in the social sciences, in the introduction in the Middle East in international relations, Fred Halliday says that in fact it is the task of these fields to identify and interpret the current patterns featured in world events. Harry also acknowledged some degree of evaluation is necessary for future planning and people to "make sense of their lives". With these general parameters in mind, better one can approach to predict the political future; instead of struggling to forecast the exact figures of oil exports or defence spending, focus must fall to identify broader trends and used to create a sketch of the future. However, the extrapolation of the current templates is, in itself, the Predictor is not enough; Hmapch Iran after the Islamic revolution and swift confirmation, is only one example among several widely held perceptions that reality fighting. A better approach is rather one that extrapolation of the current situation with comparisons with other relevant historical scenarios combines. This approach, similar to the "Historical Sociology" adopted by Halliday, joins the narration (ideographic approach of the specific case) with the theory (the nomothetic alternative, try to incorporate the matter in a broader context) to try an evaluation more precise of the future. The case of post invasion Iraq presents an excellent opportunity to this approach in the evaluation of possible futures in service. Three years have passed since the initial United States-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, allowing sufficient time for patterns begin to emerge in the political situation. The new Iraqi Government began to act, but remains a mutiny against the American occupation and internal security apparatus. Although these current trends not fully predict the future, is if you want to completely ignore the current social and political reality of Iraq dangerously myopic. In addition, the United States-led invasion also fit neatly into a series of powers of intervention in the Middle East. There is a massive body of literature which explores the participation of external forces (generally American, Soviet, British or French military and intelligence) in the Affairs of the Middle East in great detail. While the future of Iraq after the invasion will no doubt greatly influenced by the particular character of experiences of the country as a result of the invasion and the end of the totalitarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt or other States can be used as a component in a way a more complete understanding of the direction in which Iraq is currently headed. While it is impossible to State with certainty what will be the reality of the Iraq in ten or fifteen years, the aforementioned analytical tools can sort the future counterfactual more productive effort. Despite the growing domestic dissatisfaction with the war effort is likely a complete American withdrawal from the Iraq, even in the field of ten-fifteen years. This fact is supported by the continued presence of American troops in South Korea, the Balkans, and even in stable Western Europe.   
