 While the emphasis on the impossibility of making precise, quantitative predictions in the social sciences, in the introduction to the Middle East in international relations, Fred Halliday claims that it is the task of this remarkable power to identify areas and interpret patterns in events in the world. Halliday also recognizes that a degree of assessment of the future is necessary for planning and for people to "make sense of their lives." With these comprehensive standards in mind, a better approach to predicting political future; Instead of exact figures for oil exports predicted to struggle or to identify broad trends in defence expenditure, and to create a rough sketch of the future, focusing on employment should fall. However, the extrapolation of current patterns is, itself, an inadequate predictor; the quick reversal of fortune in Iran after the Islamic revolution is just one example among many in which reality challenged perceptions widely held. A better approach, rather, is the one that combines the extrapolation of the current situation with the comparison of other relevant historical scenarios. This approach, similar to the "Historical Sociology" by Halliday, joins the narrative (ideographic policy issue) with the theory (nomothetic alternative, try to include the issue in a broader context) trying to make a more accurate assessment of the future. The case of Iraq post-invasion presents an excellent opportunity to use this approach to evaluate possible futures. Three years earlier the US-led Iraq invasion patterns begin to emerge in the political situation, to provide sufficient time, since in 2003. A new Iraqi Government has begun to work, but the uprising against the American occupation and the domestic security apparatus remains. While these trends cannot fully predict the future to completely ignore the current social and political realities in Iraq dangerously short-sighted. In addition fits the invasion under US leadership in a number of interventions of the major power in the Middle East. A massive body of literature exists that very detailed the involvement of external forces (in the rule of American, Soviet, British and French military and intelligence) in Middle Eastern affairs investigated. While the future of the Iraq invasion is mainly affected by the post-by a particular character that experiences of the country following the invasion and the end of the totalitarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience of Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt and other countries can be used as a component of a more complete understanding of the direction in which the head of Iraq's now. Although it is possible to say with absolute certainty what the reality of Iraq will be in ten to fifteen years, the above analysis tools you can make sorting through the alternative futures more productive endeavor. Despite the growing domestic dissatisfaction with the war effort is a full American withdrawal from Iraq unlikely, even in the range of ten-to-fifteen-year. This fact is supported by the continued presence of American troops in Korea of the South, the Balkans and even stable Western Europe.   
