 Although Li hua, bright and have stressed it is impossible to make accurate, quantitative prediction in the field of social sciences, introducing the assertions in question of the Middle East in international relations is indeed such a field to identify and interpret world events it is worth noting that the current mode of the task. Halliday also recognizes that a degree of recovery in the future, it is necessary for planning and for the people, "the meaning of life." Predict the political future in these broad parameters in mind, one can approach better; but not struggling to predict the exact figure oil exports if identifying a broader focus of Defense spending trends to create a rough sketch of the future adopts. However, the extrapolation of current models is, in itself, is not a Predictor; a quick twist of fate in Iran after the Islamic revolution, is only one example among several in which reality contradicts the widely held perception. A better approach is rather one that extrapolation of the current situation with comparisons with other relevant historical scenarios combines. This approach, similar to such as the "Historical Sociology" married by Halliday, connects theory story (a case-specific ideographic approach) (tried the nomothetic alternative is to integrate this case in a larger context), to try a more accurate assessment of the future. The case of post invasion Iraq presents an excellent opportunity to this approach in the evaluation of possible futures in service. Three years, the first time since the United States-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, provided a sufficient number of pattern at the beginning of the political situation of the time. A new Iraqi Government has begun to operate, but remains the insurgency against the American occupation and the national security apparatus. These trends present completely cannot predict the future, completely ignore the social and political realities of Iraq is dangerous to take wind is insight. In addition, the United States-led invasion also fits perfectly into a series of interventions of great power in the Middle East. A massive body of literature exists that it explores the participation of external forces (generally American military, Soviet, British or French, and intelligence) in the Middle East in great detail matters. While the future of the post-invasion Iraq will certainly be largely affects, in particular, the nature of this country as a result of the invasion and the end of the experience in Saddam Hussein's totalitarian regime, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and that Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt, and other States may be used as part of a more complete understanding of the direction in which it is currently headed by Iraq. Although it may be impossible to articulate with absolute certainty what will be the reality of Iraq in ten or fifteen years, the aforementioned analytical tools can make sorting through future counterfactual more productive effort. Despite the increasing internal dissatisfaction with the war effort, a full American withdrawal from Iraq is unlikely, even in the range of ten to fifteen years. This fact is supported by United States troops in the Balkans, Korea or even stabilized in Western Europe continue to exist.
