 While emphasizing the impossibility of making exact predictions, and the quantity in the social sciences, in the introduction to "Middle East" in international relations, Fred Halliday that is actually important these fields define and interpret current patterns are noteworthy in global events. Halliday also knows some degree of planning and estimating future need "makes sense." With these wide parameters in mind, one can approach better predicting the political future; rather than fight, to exact figures for oil export forecast, or defense spending, the focus should be on broader trends, detect and deal with to create a rough sketch of the future. However, the extrapolation of existing patterns, by itself, is an inadequate Predictor; Swift reversal of fortune in Iran after the Islamic revolution which in reality is only an example of widely held among many defied. Instead, a better approach is one that combines extracting the current status with comparisons to other relevant historical scenarios. This approach, which corresponds to the "Historical Sociology" embraced by Halliday, joins the story (a case-specific approach to ideographic) with theory (the nomothetic alternative, try to take the case at hand in a broader context) to try a more accurate assessment of the future. State of Iraq after the invasion offers an excellent opportunity to use this approach to assess potential futures. They have three years elapsed since the initial U.S.-invasion of Iraq in 2003, providing sufficient time for patterns begin to emerge from the political situation. New Iraqi Government began to run, but the uprising against the American occupation and the local security forces. It is a dangerous short-sightedness completely cannot predict future of these current trends are, completely ignore the social and political realities of the current Iraq. In addition, under the leadership of the American invasion also fits into a great power in the Middle East. A huge amount of literature exists that explores the involvement of external forces (generally American, Soviet, British or French military and intelligence) in the Middle East Affairs in great detail. While the future of post invasion Iraq will surely be largely influenced by the particular nature of that country's experiences in the aftermath of the invasion and the end of the totalitarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and that of Afghanistan, Iran, Egypt and other States can be used as a part of a more complete understanding of the direction in which Iraq is headed at the moment. Although it with absolute certainty what the reality of Iraq in ten to fifteen vocal years would be impossible, the aforementioned analytical tools in particular forward sorting through a more productive endeavors. Despite growing domestic discontent with the war effort is unlikely a full American withdrawal from Iraq, even in the range of 10 15 years. This fact is supported by the continued presence of US troops in South Korea, the Balkans, even in Western Europe.   
