 Although stressed the impossibility of precise quantitative predictions in the social sciences, in the introduction to the Middle East in international relations, Fred Halliday claimed that it identify the task of such fields in fact and interpret remarkably current patterns in the world. Halliday also recognizes that some assessment of the future is necessary for planning and for people to "make the meaning of their lives." With these parameters in mind one of the better access to the prediction of general political future; rather than struggling to predict precise figures for oil exports, the focus would fall on defence expenditure or the identification of the more general trends and create a rough sketch of the future employs. However, is an extrapolation of the current patterns, itself a poor predictor; the rapid reversal of fortune in the Iran after the Islamic revolution is just one example of several in which reality widely defied perceptions. A better approach is rather the extrapolation of the current situation with compare to other relevant historical scenarios combined. This approach, like "sociology" espoused by Halliday, joins a narrative (the specific case of ideographic access) in theory (nomothetic alternative, trying to combine a large context case at hand) to try a more accurate estimate of the future. The case of the Iraq war presents an excellent opportunity to deal with this approach for the assessment of possible future scenarios. Three years have passed since the first US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, which is enough time for patterns begin to emerge in the political situation. The new Iraqi Government began to function, but the uprising against the American occupation and the domestic security apparatus remains. While these trends cannot quite predict the future, the ruling totally ignores the current social and political realities in Iraq seriously short-sighted. In addition, the US-led invasion, also fits neatly into a series of great power intervention in the Middle East. A massive body of literature exists, external forces (typically American, Soviet, British and French military and intelligence) involvement in Middle Eastern Affairs in great detail of. After the invasion Iraq's future is indeed Lord of complete understanding of the direction we're headed the Iraq current in the invasion and Saddam Hussein's totalitarian regime, Parallels and Iraq experience and the experience of the country after the end of the difference between the Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt, or other States are affected you can use as many components in a particular character meanwhile. Although it may be impossible to indicate with absolute certainty what will be the reality of Iraq in ten to fifteen years, the aforementioned analytical tools to make sorting through perception future endeavor more productive. Dissatisfaction or domestic growth and the war effort, despite complete American withdrawal from the Iraq is 10-even within the 15 years is likely. This fact supports the continued presence of US troops in South Korea, the Balkans, and even in the stable in Western Europe.   
