 While certain to interpret the events of the world identify and notable current patterns highlight the impossibility for a precise quantitative prediction of international relations of the Middle East to the introduction of the social sciences in the field like this task asserts written by Fred Halliday. Holliday also recognizes that some level of assessment of future needs for planning and for people to make sense of their lives. " Remember that these broad parameters, one can better predict the political future; rather difficult to predict precise figures, oil exports, or defense spending, emphasis should fall to identify broader trends, and employ them to create a rough sketch of the future. However, the extrapolation of the current model, in itself, does not have sufficient forecast Iran after the Islamic revolution of wealth between the rapid reversal is just one example of several realistic defiance of widely held views. Rather better approach combines the historical scenarios and other relevant comparative extrapolation outside the status quo is. This approach, "Historical Sociology by Halliday," same story (a case-specific approach to ideographic) theory (in the case at hand trying to incorporate a broader context, nomothetic optional) with a more accurate assessment of the future added to try. The case of the Iraq followed this invasion an excellent opportunity to use this approach to assess the possible futures. Three years have elapsed since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, the initial-provides enough time for the models start to discover the political situation. New Iraqi Government began to work, but keep the insurgency against the US occupation and the internal security service. While these trends may not fully predict the future, completely ignore the present social and political reality of Iraq is dangerously myopic. Furthermore, the American-led invasion also flows into a series of great power intervention in the Middle East. A massive body of literature exists that examines the involvement of external forces (usually the American army, the Soviet, British or French and intelligence) in the Middle East in great detail. While the future of Iraq after the invasion certainly largely affected by the special nature of that country's experiences in the aftermath of the invasion and the end of the authoritarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience, Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt, other States can be used as an element of a more complete understanding of the direction in which Iraq currently chairs. But I can't say absolutely what the reality of Iraq will be in 10-15 years, analytical tools that can sort through options counterfactual of more productive. Despite the growing discontent of the domestic war effort completed United States withdrawal of Iraq is impossible even in the 10-15 range. This fact is supported by the continued presence of troops in South Korea, the Balkans and even stable Western Europe.   
