 While stressing the impossibility of precise, quantitative predictions in the social sciences, in the introduction to the Middle East in international relations, Fred Halliday argues that really challenge such fields to identify and interpret the current trends in world events. Halliday also recognizes that some level of assessment of the future necessary for planning and for the people "meaning their life to make." With this in mind, one can better predict the future approach to political rather than struggling to predict precise figures for oil exports or defence expenditure, should focus on identifying the broader trends to create a rough sketch of the future. The extrapolation of current models, however, itself, inadequate predictor; the quick reversal of fortune in Iran after the Islamic revolution is just one example among several in which reality defied a re-drafted the perception. Instead, the better approach is to comparisons with other relevant historical scenes in conjunction with extrapolation of the status quo. This method, similar to the German religion of "Historical Sociology" joins the narrative (ideographic approach to the circumstances) and theoretical (nomothetic alternative, attempted to the case at hand into a wider context) attempts to future assessments more accurately. Present the perfect opportunity to adopt this approach to evaluate the possible futures of Iraq after the invasion. Three years have passed since the initial u.s.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, providing enough time for start to the political situation. A new Iraqi Government has begun to work, but the revolt against both the u.s. occupation and the domestic security apparatus remains. While these current trends do not predict the future perfectly, completely ignoring the social and political realities of present Iraq to dangerous short-sighted. Neatly, United States-led invasion also fit series of the intervention of the great powers in the Middle East. A large body of literature is one of the great details of the Middle East problem external power (General American, Soviet, United Kingdom, and France military and intelligence) of research there involved. While the future after the invasion will surely depend largely on the specific experience of the country as a result of the invasion and the end of the totalitarian regime of Saddam Hussein, the similarities and differences between the Iraqi experience and that Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt and other States can be used as a component of a more comprehensive understanding of the direction in which is currently chaired by Iraq. Although it may not be able to articulate with absolute certainty in the years 10-15, Iraq the reality of what's going to be, the above analysis tools can be sort of fact futures through more effective efforts. Despite growing dissatisfaction with the war effort, full American withdrawal from Iraq, even within ten to fifteen years. This fact is supported by the continued presence of American troops in stable Korea, the Balkans and Western Europe.
