 This document is an attempt to deal with a diverse set of issues.   Global power energy systems are challenged, longevity is increasingly uncertain of its resources. At the same time are many (if not most) Governments and industry leaders reluctant to recognize the need for large-scale technological innovation.   And on top of it all, climate change has begun to knock on the door. Effect as a response to a general lack of control of the resources required for the operation of the person, meaningful action, many communities have begun to explore the options of their own. This Kingdom distributed or decentralized generation, the idea that energy should be created close to the point at which it is consumed.   For some is distributed generation with renewable technologies all but inevitable (Petras and Kreider 2001).   For other renewable technologies are just as likely to become corporate technologies (Bookchin 1980).   What is in dispute is the way new energy technologies are introduced.   It is possible that renewable energy to conventional energy generation technologies will simply replaced.   However, if communities and technologies are introduced to each other in the right way, renewable, distributed generation could mean dramatic social changes for the social systems in the world. This paper begins with a brief discussion of distributed generation and renewable technologies that lend themselves more easily to decentralized energy system.   Subsequently, decentralized, renewable technologies at Navarra community, Spain and to examine how this applies to larger environmental attitudes in Spain in the evolution of the implementation discussion aims to highlight technology was selected to fit the navar argues-is not only surrounded by social systems. Finally, the paper closes with an exploration of the deeper social consequences of decentralised energy systems in societies historically influenced by centralized energy systems. Only in United States, it is estimated that the forces combined in a significant growth in demand and and many withdrawals of plant will require to "1.70 trillion kWh of additional power" by the year 2020 (Chambers 2001: 8).   Add to this the $ 1,100 per hour price tag estimated kilowatt power line running six-mile customer MW 3 "(born in 2001: 22).   Finally, long distance transmission loss of energy during anticipated: + 5% to the United States and in developing countries as high as 30%.  Energy market does not show any signs of slowing down, has a clear incentive mechanism of a centralized system more efficient, lower-cost alternatives. Enter distributed and decentralised generation. Economics, engineering, environmental issues, renewable energy-based response generation system, transmission, and distribution costs, balancing offering potential savings of significant environmental damage concentration and energy loss-a large construction project. Distributed or Decentralized generation is nothing new. Indeed, for the construction of commercial electrical systems, most energy was produced in the location that it was consumed: fireplaces, waterwheels, steam, etc.  
