 This document is an attempt to cope with a diverse set of issues.   Longevity resources is increasingly uncertain, is required in the present world energy system questions. At the same time, the need for extensive technical innovations are reluctant to accept (if not most) many Governments and industry leaders.   On top of all of this, is climate change began to knock on everyone's door. Has started to explore the unique options for many communities as a response to the widespread lack of operations control means in the resources necessary to enable the action. It is distributed or decentralized power generation realm, should be closer to the ideas of energy consumption points in it. For some people, and distributed generation of renewable energy technologies is all but inevitable (Borbely and haidai 2001). For others, renewable energy technologies just as likely to become corporate technologies (bokchin 1980).   What is at issue, it is the way in which the new energy technologies are introduced.   It is possible that it will simply replace conventional energy generation technologies of renewable resources.   However, if communities and technology were introduced to each other in the right way, renewable and distributed generation dramatic social change would mean for social systems all over the world. This paper distributed generation and renewable technologies that are most easily a decentralized energy system with a brief discussion of lending begins.   Subsequently, a discussion on the implementation of renewable technologies decentralized in the autonomous community of Navarre, in Spain and a review of how this fits into the larger evolution of environmental attitudes in Spain seeks to highlight how technologies have been chosen to adapt the social system in Navarre - pas vice versa.   Finally, the book ends with an exploration of the deeper social implications systems of decentralised energy in societies historically influenced by centralized energy systems. Alone in the United States, it is estimated that the United forces of a significant increase in demand and and many plants need retirement up to "1.70 trillion kWh of additional electrical energy by 2020" (Chambers 2001: 8).   Add to that the amount of $1,100 per kilowatt hour estimated price tag of the execution of a "line of power of six miles to a customer of MW 3" (Chambers 2001:22).   Finally, in long-distance transmission in the process of taking into account the estimated energy losses: up to 5% in the United States, as many as 30% in developing countries. Energy market showed no sign of slowing and there is not a more efficient centralized system, less costly options are clear incentives. Please enter a distributed and decentralized power generation. One response to economic, engineering and environmental concerns, renewable-based generation, transmission and distribution costs, energy loss regimes during transmission, and important environment by widespread damage caused by centralized construction projects on a potential saving of distributed. Distributed generation, or decentralization is nothing new. In fact commercial before construction of the electrical system, and most of the energy produced in the location, it consumes: fireplaces, water, steam, etc.
