 This document is an attempt to deal with a diverse set of topics.   Worldwide, reigning energy regimes are challenged, such as their lifetime resource increasingly uncertain.   At the same time, many (if not most) Governments and industry leaders are reluctant to recognize the need for widespread technological innovation.   On top of everything, the climate began to knock on the doors of each of us. As a response to the scarcity of meaningful action by those who control the resources needed to perform this action on a large scale, many communities began exploring their options.   This is the realm of the distributed or decentralized generation, the idea that energy should be made closer to the point at which it is consumed.   For some, it represents the distributed generation of renewable energy technologies, but the necessary (Borbely, and Kreider, 2001).   For others, renewable technologies is just as likely (Bookchin 1980) technologies company.   What is at issue is how to introduce new energy technologies.   It is possible that renewable energy sources simply replace conventional energy generation technologies.   Renewable and distributed generation, but if offered and technology communities to each other in the right way, can mean social change social systems in the world. This article begins with a brief analysis of distributed generation and renewable energy that lend themselves more easily to a decentralised energy system.   Subsequently, a discussion of the application of renewable technologies, decentralized in the autonomous community of Navarra, Spain and an examination of how this fits into the larger evolution of environmental attitudes in Spain seeks to highlight the way in which technologies were chosen to fit the social system in Navarra - rather than the other way around.   Finally, the book closes with an exploration of the social implications of deeper energy systems in societies historically influenced by centralized energy systems. In the US alone, it is estimated that the combined forces of a substantial growth of demand and and numerous plant retirements will need up to "1.7 trillion kWh of additional electrical energy by 2020" (Chambers 2001: 8).   Add to this the $ 1,100 per kilowatt hour estimated prices tag of running a "six-mile power line to a 3 MW customer" (Chambers 2001: 22).   Finally, consider the energy loss estimated during long-distance transmission: up to 5% on the United States and as high as 30% in developing countries.  The energy market is not showing any signs of slowing and there are obvious incentives for a more efficient alternative, less expensive centralized systems. Enter distributed and decentralised generation. Possible savings on transmission and distribution costs, energy loss during transmission and the considerable environmental damage caused by massive Central construction projects offer a response to economic, technical and environmental concerns, renewable-based, distributed generation regimes. Distributed or decentralized generation is nothing new. In fact, commercial power systems before it was consumed in most energy production: fireplaces, water wheels, steam, etc.  
