 This paper is an attempt to cope with diverse problems.   Around the world, the reigning energy regimes are disputed, as their sources of life is still uncertain.   At the same time, many (if not most) Government and industry leaders to recognize the need for widespread technological innovation.   Above all climate change has begun to knock on the door of all. As a reaction to the widespread lack of meaningful action on the part of those who control the resources needed to perform that action, many communities have begun to explore their own options.   This is the area of generation distributed or decentralized, the idea that energy must be generated near the point where it is consumed.   For some people, distributed generation renewable technologies, but with all the essentials (Borbely and Kreider, 2001).   For other renewable technologies, are equally likely to be technology companies (Bookchin 1980).   Is the introduction of new energy technologies. Possible alternative energy generation technologies, renewables simply conventional.   However, if the community technology introduced in the right way to another, renewable energy, distributed generation could mean a dramatic social change, social systems around the world. Books they lend to facilitate distributed and decentralized energy system in this paper initiates a simple description of the renewable energy technologies. Then a discussion on the implementation of the decentralized, renewable technologies in the autonomous community of Navarre, Spain and an investigation should include this in the larger development of environmental settings in Spain to mark the way that technologies have been selected to fit the social system in Navarre - not the other way around.   Lastly, the historical societies affected by centralised energy system paper in decentralized energy systems with the discovery of deep social effect off. In the US alone, it is estimated that the combined force and a significant increase in demand and many plant retirements up "additional 1.7 trillion kWh of electricity by 2020" (2001: 8 Chambers) would be required.   The $ 1,100 per kilowatt hours estimated price tag is a "six-mile power line" to run a 3 MW client (Chambers 2001: 22).   Finally, considering the estimated energy losses during long-distance transmission: Max 5% higher 30% in developing countries and United States. The energy market shows no signs of slowing down, and there are clear incentives for a more efficient and less costly for centralized systems alternative. Enter the distributed and decentralised generation. A response to the concerns economic, technical and environmental, renewable-based, distributed generation systems offer potential savings on the costs of transport and distribution, energy loss in transmission and the environmental damage caused by massive centralized construction projects. Distribute, or decentralized generation is nothing new. In fact, before the construction of electrical systems, most of the energy produced on site that is the consumption: fireplaces, water wheels, steam, etc.  
