 This article is an attempt to deal with a diverse set of issues.   Regimes reigning power around the world is being questioned as the longevity of your resources is increasingly more uncertain.   At the same time, much (if not most) Governments and industry leaders are reluctant to recognize the need for widespread technological innovation.   On top of all of this, is climate change began to knock on everyone's door. In response to the widespread scarcity of meaningful action by those who control the resources needed to carry out this action, many communities have begun to explore its own options.   It generates close to the point it is consumed in the area of decentralized or distributed generation may be energy idea. All of the distributed generation renewable energy technologies is inevitable for some of is (Borbely and Kreider 2001). For others, renewable technologies are as likely to become corporate technologies (Bookchin, 1980).   What is at issue is the way in which new energy technologies are introduced.   It is possible that renewable energy sources will simply replace conventional energy generation technologies.   However, if communities and technology were introduced to each other in the right way, renewable and distributed generation dramatic social change would mean for social systems all over the world. Discussion on distributed power generation at the beginning of this document and those most likely to lend itself as a decentralized renewable energy systems technology. Later, wants a discussion of the implementation of decentralised renewable technologies in the province and autonomous community of Navarre, Spain and an investigation into how this in the larger evolution of environmental attitudes in Spain were chosen to fit fits emphasise how technologies of social system in Navarre-not the other way around.   Finally, the paper includes decentralized energy systems in societies historically influenced by centralized energy systems with an exploration of the deeper social implications. United States only, it is estimated that the combined forces of a significant growth in demand and and many retirements plant will require embracing "1.70 trillion kWh of additional electricity by 2020" (Chambers 2001:8).   Add to this the $ 1,100 per kilowatt hour, the estimated price tag is running "six miles of electrical wiring 3 MW to a customer" (Chambers, 2001: 22).   Finally, consider the estimated loss of energy during long distance transport: up to 5% in the United States and up to 30 per cent in developing countries.  Energy market does not show any signs of slowing down and there are clear incentives for a more efficient alternative and less expensive for central systems. Enter distributed generation and decentralization. Economic, engineering and environmental concern, based on renewable, reply to distributed generation system provides the potential for cost savings in transmission and distribution, transport, energy loss, and during large-scale construction projects and major environmental damage caused. Distributed or decentralized generation is not new. Indeed, before the construction of commercial electrical systems, the majority of energy is produced at the location it was destroyed: fireplaces, water, steam, etc.  
