 This is an attempt to deal with the various issues in this paper. Energy regimes around the world, and is now called the question of their longevity of resource is involved.   At the same time, many (if not most) of the Government and industry leaders are loath to acknowledge the need for advanced technological innovation.   Over tout, a climate change started to knock on the door. As a reaction to the widespread lack of meaningful action on the part of those who control the resources needed to perform that action, many communities have begun to explore their own options.   This is the area of the distributed or distributed generation, the idea that energy should be generated closer at the point at which it is used.   For some, a distributed generation renewable technologies is but inevitable (Borbely and Kreider, 2001).   For others, the renewable energy technologies are just as likely to become technology (Bookchin 1980).   What is a problem is the way that introduced new energy technologies.   It is possible that the renewable energy replaced simply conventional energy generation technologies.   If being introduced in the right way to technology and community, however, world, renewable distributed generation dramatic social change social systems might. This document begins with a brief discussion of distributed generation and renewable technologies that most usual lend themselves for a decentralised energy system.   Subsequently, the discussion of the decentralized, renewable technologies in Spain, the autonomous community of Navarra and study how it fits into the larger evolution of environmental approaches in Spain seeks to highlight how technologies were selected taking into account the social system in Navarre-not the other way around.   Finally, the paper closes with exploring the deeper social consequences of decentralised energy systems in companies, which are historically influenced by the centralized energy systems. In the United States alone, it is estimated that the combined forces of a large increase in demand will require many retirements plant up to 1.70 trillion kWh of additional power by 2020 "(Chambers, 2001: 8).   In addition the $1,100 per kW hours estimated price tag running a "six-mile high-voltage line one 3 MW customers" (2001: 22 Chambers).   Finally check the estimated energy loss during transmission over long distances: up to 5% in the United States and up to 30% in developing countries.  The market shows no signs of slowing and energy are clear incentives for a more efficient, less costly alternative to the centralized system. Enter the distributed and decentralised generation. In response to the economic, technical and environmental concerns, renewable-based, distributed generation, which offer potential savings on the costs of transmission and distribution schemes, energy loss during transmission, and significant environmental damage caused by the massive centralized construction projects. Distributed or decentralized generation is nothing new. In fact, before the construction of the commercial electrical systems, most energy produced at the point it was consumed: Fireplaces, water wheels, steam, etc..  
