 This document is an attempt to deal with a different set of issues. As their resource is increasingly uncertain longevity, secret energy regimes around the world being called into question.   At the same time, many are (if not most) Governments and industry leaders reluctantly, the need for a widespread to confirm technological innovation.   On top of all this climate change began to knock on every door. Meaningful action on behalf of that action is needed to control the effects of a lack of resources, largely as a response to the many communities find their own alternatives.   It distributed or decentralized generation realm, the idea that energy must be generated closer to the point at which it is consumed.   For some, the production distributed with renewable energy technologies is almost inevitable (Borbely and Kreider,) 2001.   For others, but have the potential to become a technology business (Bookchin 1980) of renewable energy technologies. What is in dispute is the way new energy technologies are introduced.   It is possible that renewable energy will simply replace conventional energy sources of generation.   However, if communities and technologies are introduced to each other in the right way, renewable distributed generation can mean dramatic social changes for the social systems in the world. This book begins with a brief discussion of distributed generation and renewable technologies, which are adapted to the most expensive of these decentralised energy system.   Later, wants a discussion of the implementation of decentralised renewable technologies in the province and autonomous community of Navarre, Spain and an investigation into how this in the larger evolution of environmental attitudes in Spain were chosen to fit fits emphasise how technologies of social system in Navarre-not the other way around.   Finally, the paper closes with an exploration of the deeper social consequences of decentralised energy systems in societies historically influenced by centralized energy systems. Only in the United States, estimated that the combined force of significant growth in demand and also numerous plant retirement will require "1.7 trillion kilowatt-hours of electricity to an additional year 2020" (Chambers 2001: 8).   Added to this is the $1,100 per kilowatt hour estimated price tag to run a "six-mile power line customer MW 3" (Chambers 2001: 22).   Finally, take into account the loss of energy estimated in their transmission over long distances: up to 5% to the United States and up to 30% in developing countries.  And energy market shows no signs of slowing down, you must replace the centralized management system for more efficient low-cost clear incentives. Distributed and decentralized generation enter. Response to economic concerns, engineering and environmental, renewable-based, distributed generation systems allow for savings in transport costs and distribution and power loss during transmission of significant environmental damage caused by massive construction projects. Distributed generation is not something new or split. Indeed, for the construction of commercial electrical systems, most energy was produced in the location that it was consumed: fireplaces, waterwheels, steam, etc.  
