 This paper is an attempt, with a number of issues.   Worldwide, the ruling power regimes are questioned, as their durability becoming resource is uncertain.   At the same time, many (if not most) Governments and industry leaders recognize the need to hate the technological innovation on a large scale.   Above all, it was a knock at the door has begun to climate change. In response to significant action on the bmandsim who control the resources needed to apply this common, many communities have begun to explore their options.   It is the domain of the distributed or decentralized production, the idea that the energy must be generated more close to the point where it is consumed.   For some, the distributed renewable generation is almost inevitable (Borbely and Kreider, 2001).   For other renewable technologies are just as well be enterprise technologies (Bookchin 1980).   What's on the way in which the new energy technologies are introduced.   Renewable energy than replacing the technology of conventional energy generation is possible. However, if communities and technology are introduced to each other in the right way, renewable, distributed production could mean social upheaval for the social systems in the world. This paper begins with a brief discussion of these renewable technologies that are most easily decentralized energy systems and distributed generation.   The autonomous community of Navarre, Spain, and how this environmental stance of Spain fits in broader development an examination of the implementation of the decentralized, renewable technologies, discusses the way technology-not the other way around Navarre social arrangement to fit uncover wants to choose.   Finally, the paper concludes explore deeper social impacts of decentralized energy systems in societies which have affected the historic central energy systems. United States alone, it is estimated that 1700000000000 kWh of electricity by 2020, adding that many plants and binding force of the significant growth in the demand for retirement need is a (Chambers, 2001: 8). Add to that the 1100 kWh price tag estimated to run "line of authority six miles to client 3 MW" (Chambers 2001: 22).   Finally, consider the estimated energy loss during the remote transmission: up to 5% in the USA and as high as 30% in developing countries.  The market for energy not showing no signs of slowing down and there are clear incentives for a more efficient and cheaper alternative to centralized systems. Enter the balancing and distributed generation. An answer to the economic, technical and ecological concerns, renewable-based, distributed generation regimes a potential savings on, transmission and distribution costs, energy loss during the dispatch and the substantial damage to the environment caused by massive centralized construction projects offer. Distributed, or distributed generation is nothing new. Actually, before the construction of the commercial electrical systems, most of the energy was produced, was consumed on the spot: fireplaces, water wheels, steam, etc.  
