 This paper deals with a diverse set of issues to.   Energy worldwide, the regime has been questioned as to their longevity resources all the more uncertain.   At the same time, the Governments of many (if not most), and the need for widespread industry hate innovation.   Above all, the climate began to knock on the door. Many communities have started as a response to the widespread lack of meaningful action on the part of those who control the resources needed to bring about the action, to explore their own ways.   This is the world of generation distributed or decentralized, was born the idea that energy should be closer to the point where they are consumed.   For some, the distributed generation with renewable technologies all but inevitable (borbili wekrider, 2001).   Others, may be (Bookchin 1980) technology for renewable energy technology companies. The issue is how the introduction of new energy technologies.   It will replace the traditional energy production technologies, renewables simply.   When communities and technology in the right way are introduced with each other, renewable and distributed generation could mean but dramatic social change for social systems all over the world. This paper begins with a brief discussion of distributed renewable generation technologies lend themselves more easily to these system distributed energy.   Then, a discussion of the application of distributed renewable technologies, in the autonomous community of Navarre, Spain, and examine how it fits into the development of environmental approaches in Spain wants to highlight the technologies were chosen to match the social system-not the other way around. Navarre   Finally, close the exploration of the social impact of distributed energy system in historical impact social paper-intensive energy systems more deep. In the u.s. alone, it is estimated that the combined forces of growth in demand, many plant retirements will require up to 1.7 trillion kWh "of power another 2020" (Chambers, 2001: 8).   Add to that the $ 1100 per kilowatt hour, the estimated price tag is "six km POWER TRANSMISSION LINE to 3 Mw customer" (Chambers 2001: 22).   Finally, consider the estimated energy loss during long-distance transmission: up to 5% in the USA, with a height of 30% in developing countries.  The market for energy not showing no signs of slowing down and there are clear incentives for a more efficient and cheaper alternative to centralized systems. Enter a distributed and decentralized. An answer to the economic, technical and ecological concerns, renewable-based, distributed generation regimes a potential savings on, transmission and distribution costs, energy loss during the dispatch and the substantial damage to the environment caused by massive centralized construction projects offer. Is new nothing generation distributed or decentralized. Indeed, before the establishment of the commercial power systems, most of the energy consumed was produced at this location: fireplace, water wheels, and steam.  
