 This document is an attempt to deal with a diverse set of issues.   Worldwide, reigning energy regimes are challenged, such as their lifetime resource increasingly uncertain.   At the same time are many (if not most) Governments and industry leaders reluctant to recognize the need for large-scale technological innovation.   Climate change has started knocking door guys on top of it all. In response to the widespread shortage of significant action by those who control the resources necessary to carry out this action, many communities have begun to explore their own options.   This is the domain of the distributed generation concept to be split or, closer to the point where energy is generated is consumed.   For some is distributed generation with renewable technologies all but inevitable (Petras and Kreider 2001).   For other renewable energy technologies are just as likely to become the corporate technology (Bookchin 1980).   Question is what's the method introduced in new energy technologies. It is possible that renewable energy to conventional energy generation technologies will simply replaced.   If communities and technology intersect in the right direction, however, renewable distributed generation dramatic social change, social order could mean for around the world. This paper begins with a brief discussion of distributed generation and renewable technologies that lend themselves more easily to a decentralised energy system.   Subsequently, discuss implementation of renewable technologies, decentralization in the autonomous community of Navarre, Spain and study how this fits into the larger development of environmental attitudes in Spain seeks to highlight how the selection of technologies for social order in Navarre-not vice versa.   Finally, this document closes and exploration of distributed energy system in centralized energy system in the history of the deeper social impacts in society. Only in the United States, it is estimated that the joint forces of significant growth in demand and a wide range of retirement will take "1 trillion of additional power by 2020" (2001: 8). Add to this the $ 1,100 per kilowatt hour estimated prices tag of running a "six-mile power line to a 3 MW customer" (Chambers 2001: 22).   Finally, let's look at some loss of energy during long-haul transmission: up to 5% in the United States and up to 30% in developing countries.  There are clear incentives for more effective and less costly alternative to centralized system and energy market does not show any signs of slowing down. Enter distributed and decentralised generation. A response to economic concerns, engineering and environmental medium, renewable-based generation schemes offer a potential savings in the costs of transmission and distribution, power loss during transmission and the significant environmental damage caused by massive centralized construction projects of distributed. Decentralized or distributed generation is nothing new. Indeed, was born in the most energy was consumed before electric commercial system construction location: wheels of fire, water, steam, etc.
