 I ate a sandwich buffet, when I felt a tap on my shoulder. "I remember?", asked a woman. Couldn't get to the first connection. Then she said, "you helped my son." Recalled. It was the first day of my Pediatric rotation, the day I look forward to years. Because I I always regarded as an advocate for the child, the next few weeks would test if my passion to help children to would result in my future career. It was time to round. I sat around a conference room table, listening attentively. Then we began to discuss a mystery: a five-year-old boy had a history of high fever, a stiff neck and a negative spinal tap have been approved. I was intrigued by the clinical thought process, which the medical team was engaging. Every day, the boy different clinical features. In order to help, I spent my free time trying to identify the diagnosis, symptoms and signs that its different. I began to understand that I want to include in my future career of Pediatric-specific properties. I enjoyed working with children with challenging diagnoses together with those who were extremely ill or chronically ill. I allow my other pediatric practice in, to get insight into my professional goals, not just the experience. I knew that I wanted to specialize in pediatric medicine, but maintain a broad background in general Pediatrics. Boy's Hospital for a week and of course team decided that he would most likely have a form of atypical Kawasaki disease. The boy's mother made it clear that she would consent to more unnecessary procedures. In addition, we were on a clock. The treatment for Kawasaki disease, intravenous gamma globulins, needed to be administered within the first 10 days of illness ... It was ten days. After the research, it was a fascinating experience of clinical application. During college, I assisted the research team to examine the effects of albuterol orally the atrophy of boys with dystrophenopathies. Then in medical school, I was involved in a study looking at compliance between asthma of children in the inner city. During these clinical studies to hone the skills I allowed my experiments of a scientific curiosity, and gain experience in clinical research.  After receiving approval from staff, the boy's mother, Kawasaki disease and treatment I about articles on sat with. The family agreed to ?-globulin therapy. In this situation, I drew from my personal strengths, such determination, generosity, compassion, and curiosity. In addition, I used my past experiences as interacting with this family. My experience with flu shots of homeless HIV positive community in the South Bronx taught respect me, because every person has a story worth hearing. As a member of the crisis Hot I learned the art of listening and how to relieve intense conversation. 
