 I ate a sandwich at the hospital cafeteria, when I felt a tap on the shoulder. "Do you remember me?" asked a woman. Initially I was able to make a connection. Then she said: "You helped my son." I remembered. It was the first day of my children, today was the turn was forecast for years. Proponents of the child test next few weeks to help the children of my passion to convert my future career, so always thought myself,. It's time to round up. Around a conference room table, listening eagerly to sat Then we started to discuss a mystery: five-year-old boy has admitted a history of fever and stiff neck and spinal tap were negative. I was intrigued by the thought process, clinical medical team involved. Every day, the boy develop clinical features. In an attempt to help I spent my free time trying to identify a diagnosis to explain the phenomena of different symbols. And I have my future career pediatric medicine wanted to join the Forte were to realize that. I enjoyed the work with children with difficult diagnoses together with those who were very ill or chronically ill. This experience, as well as others in my Pediatric youth allowed me to meet my professional goals. Specialty of pediatric medicine, yet in General knew the thought of Pediatrics with a comprehensive background to maintain. Boy hospital course 1 week team he is most likely the atypical form of Kawasaki that you have. Boy's mother very clearly, she would not agree to more unnecessary procedures. In addition, we were on the clock. Intravenous gamma globulin, required for the treatment of Kawasaki disease management within a day. It was on 10. Research studies with clinical applications to join, it was fascinating to experience. In College, dystrophenopathies I helped a boy during oral albuterol effects tests on muscular atrophy research team. So, in medical school, I made a study of asthmatic children in the inner city in see in between. Understanding, acquired during these trials I allowed to hone my skills of experimentation, develop a scientific curiosity and experience in clinical research.  After approval by the staff, I sat with the boy's mother, traveling through articles about disease and treatment. The gamma globulin treatment agreed. Throughout this situation were from my personal power such as determination, perseverance and compassion and curiosity. Also, use the my past experience as a guide to interaction with the family. My experience to give flu shots homeless HIV positive South Bronx Community taught me to pay attention, everyone has a story worth hearing. Member hotline, I learned the art of listening and how to ease the intense conversation. 
