 Multiple aircraft. United States of America by MIRVs a key event in the cold war for two reasons. Firstly, the number of targets increased significantly, which could eliminate the rocket moves on the strategic balance of the uniform, who has the MIRVs. Secondly, highlight the shortcomings of the Soviet high-tech innovation. The strategic balance by increasing the damage could do one MIRVs had moved the missile. Damage to the heat and radiation from nuclear explosions is reduced when the distance from the objective of increasing the inverse square law. Blast damage (pressure) falls on the inverse cube of distance. Therefore, small warheads cause more damage than a single large head. Together with MIRVs, this means that fewer resources are needed to achieve the required damage threshold. In addition, the strategic nuclear balance in salt, which launched MIRVs missiles, not limiting the number of warheads from the effect.   Is far more sophisticated than the missile typically MIRVs weapons, guidance package. The United States was clearly in the lead in the development of new technologies, particularly in the area of computers. The necessary arrangements for guidance by MIRVs (time) need lots of processing power, and the only way to do it with the computer. Further, brought about improved warhead size large reductions of the inverse square law for missile accuracy The Soviet Union did not invest heavily in the computers of the 1950s and 1960s. MIRVs stressed the need for the National Soviet Union develop their own internal-hi tech. As it was, they hold the play/computer systems and guidance technologies required by the United States with the US MIRVs parity to try to keep resorting to spying. Was increasing the Super Soviet funding of the math and science in response, they use conflict researchers aiming at the same goal, trying to emulate the Western-style research. Were off to the Khrushchev Joseph Stalin's death in 1953, as first Secretary. Khrushchev personality and ruling method was marked from the ruthless rule of Stalin's departure. Khrushchev stated that as being somewhat impulsive and a little bit gambler. He went up the great ideas, but had not planned through the completion of things. Khrushchev's departure as a result of m.k. Stalin's policies his struggle to come up with their complicity in the crime of domination. He was one of the few to survive the Bolsheviks closed the great, but he never forgot the promise of the revolution. At a closed meeting of the 20TH Congress of the Communist Party in 1956, Khrushchev declared that the SOVIET UNION reject Stalinism and return to the ideals of Lenin. May be intent on points, but Lenin was not lighter philosophies much Stalin; and ruthlessly party, ruled out seeking to further his own at the expense of any and all who stood in the way.  
