 Several independent orientation of re-entry vehicles. Introduction to MIRVs by United States was an important event in the cold war for two reasons. First of all, it can eliminate a single missile, she who is the increasing number of strategic balance transfer targets MIRVs. Secondly, it raised Soviet defects in high-tech innovation. By increasing the damage caused by a single missile of MIRVs dramatically shifted the strategic balance. Heat and radiation damage resulting from a nuclear explosion decreases as the distance of a target increased by the inverse square law. (Pressure) explosion damage reduced by inverse cube of the distance. Therefore, small nuclear warheads can cause more damage than a single large warhead. Combining with the Guide, this means that fewer resources are required to obtain the required threshold. In addition, the strategic balance by reducing the effects of salt, which initially limited the number of nuclear missiles, not warheads transferred Mirvs.   MIRVs are advanced weapon technologies, with guidance packages much more sophisticated than regular missiles. United States America was clearly in the field of new technologies, especially computer develop led. Orientation systems required by MIRVs need much processing power (for the time), and the only way to do it was with computers. Moreover, because of the inverse square law yielded increase accuracy of a rocket stronger reductions in required sizes of nuclear warheads. In the 50s and 60s years invest the Soviet Union not strong in computers. MIRVS stressed the need for national security for the Soviet Union to be able to develop its own high technology inside. As it was, she had to resort to espionage to play catch-up/try to maintain parity with the United States for computer systems and technology guidance requested by gatling. In response, a massive increase in funding of the Soviet Union in science and mathematics, and they attempted to use the same target for a study on the competition team follow the example of Western-style research. Khrushchev was in power in 1953, first as Secretary after the death of Joseph Stalin. Khrushchev's personality and ruling methods were a clear departure from Stalin's ruthless rule. Khrushchev has been noted as being a little impulsive and a little bit of a player.  He embarked on the great ideas, but did not always things through completion. Departure of policies of Stalin Khrushchev is following his fight with his own complicity in the crimes of the regime. That's great for a few survive to be reminiscent of the Bolsheviks at Ekaterinburg, but he never forgot the promise of the revolution. At a closed meeting of the twentieth Congress of the Communist Party in 1956 Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union had to reject Stalinism and return to ideals of Lenin. Point the intention was, but Lenin's philosophies were much softer than by Stalin; He ruthlessly governed the party, anxious to his own point of view at the expense of all further, which in its way turned.  
