 Multiple Reentry vehicles independently Targetable. The introduction of MIRVs on the United States was an important event in the cold war for two reasons. Firstly, it increases the number of targets that could eliminate a single missile, moving the strategic balance to those who have the MIRVs. Secondly, it highlights the shortcomings of the Soviet Union in the high-tech innovation. Gatling shift the strategic balance by increasing the damage one can do considerably. Reduces heat and radiation damage of nuclear explosion as the distance to the goal than the inverse square law. The inverse cube of the distance explosions (pressure) loss from decreases. Therefore, smaller warheads can cause more damage than one large Warhead. Together with MIRVs, meaning less resources are required to achieve the desired damage threshold. In addition, shifted the strategic balance by MIRVs reducing the impact of salt, which was initially the number of nuclear missiles, warheads not restricted.   Advanced weapons technologies, MIRVs with sophisticated guidance packages much more than standard missiles. The US was clearly at the forefront of the development of new technologies, in particular in the field of computers. The prescribed MIRVs guidance systems much processing power needed (for the time), and the only way to do this was with computers. In addition, the inverse square law as enhancing the accuracy of a missile warheads in the required size and more cuts yielded. The Soviet Union did not invest in computers in the 1950s and 1960s. Gatling underlined the need for national security of the Soviet Union to be able to develop their high technology internally. They had tried to keep necessary Mirvs technologies as it was on espionage to play catch-up / parity with the United States for the computer systems and guide. In response, the Soviets increased funding for science and math on, they tried to imitate the Western style research by taking advantage of competing research teams aim for the same goals. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. Personality and ruling techniques of Khrushchev were notable departures from the ruthless rule of Stalin. Khrushchev was a bit exciting and found a bit of a player.  He made great ideas but not always plan things through to completion. Khrushchev's departure from Stalin's policy was created in the course of his struggle with his own complicity in the crimes of the regime. He was one of the few Bolsheviks to survive the great purge, but he had never forgotten the promise of the revolution. In a meeting closed to the 20th Congress of the Communist Party in 1956, Khrushchev declared that the USSR had to reject Stalinism and return to the ideals of Lenin. The intention is perhaps on the point, but Lenin philosophies were milder than those of Stalin. Il ruled the party without pity, which seeks to continue his vision to the detriment of tout who stood in his way.  
