 Individual targeting multiple reentry vehicles. By United States Guide into two reasons are significant events in the period of the cold war. First, it significantly increases a single missile can be eliminated, transfers to his guiding objectives of the strategic balance. Secondly, it has highlighted Soviet deficiencies in high-tech innovation. Guided strategic balance transfers, which greatly improves the damage of a single missile can do. Reduced heat from nuclear test explosions and radiation injury as the inverse square of the distance between the objective law will increase. Damage from explosion (pressure) decreases by the inverse distance cube. As a result, small warheads can cause more damage than a single large warhead. Combined with Mirvs, this means that fewer resources are needed to achieve a desired damage threshold. Also salt is transferred strategic balance by reducing the number of nuclear missiles, without nuclear warheads limits impact initially are MIRVs. Mirvs are weapon technologies, with far more complex than regular missile guidance packages advanced. United States was clearly lead to the development of new technologies, especially in computers. Need a lot of processing power required conning MIRVs (first time), and the only way it was with computers. In addition due to the inverse square law, improve the accuracy of missiles brought a significant reduction in required sizes. The Soviet Union not invested heavily in computers in 50 and 60 years. Mirvs makes it clear that the Soviet Union their own tech internally can develop for national security. As it was, they had to resort to espionage to play at the same time or try to maintain parity with the United States for the computer systems and orientation technologies required by MIRVs. In response, the Soviets massively increased funding for science and math, and they tried to imitate Western style research, taking advantage of competing research teams, is committed to the same goal. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, following Stalin's death. Khrushchev's personality and ruling method was ruthless Stalinist rule to significantly deviate from. It was noted that Khrushchev being slightly impulsive and a little bit of gambler.  Great ideas started, but it wasn't always plan things through completion. Leave Khrushchev to Stalin's policies came about as a result of his struggle with himself complicity in crimes system. He was one of the few Bolsheviks to survive the great librarian, but never forgot the promise of the revolution. In closed session "Conference" "Communist Party" in 1956, Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union had rejected Stalinism and return to the ideals of Lenin. To can be on point, but Lenin's philosophy were not much softer than Stalin; He led the party relentlessly seeking to continue his vision due to any and all who stood in his way.  
