 Several independently Targetable reentry vehicles. Important events of the cold war was introduced in the United States of America MIRVs for two reasons. First, it greatly increased the number of objectives that a single missile could eliminate, evolving the strategic balance to whoever has the MIRVs. Secondly, shortcomings the Soviet Union in high-tech innovation. MIRV has moved the strategic balance by significantly increasing the damage that a single missile could do. Heat and radiation decreases damage by a nuclear detonation as the distance to a target by the inverse square law increases. Blast (pressure) decreased by inverse cube of distance. Therefore, smaller warheads can cause more damage than a single large warhead. In combination with MIRVS, this means that fewer resources are needed to achieve the desired damage threshold. Additionally, the strategic balance gatling limit the impact of salt, which initially limited the number of nuclear missiles, warheads.   MIRV is advanced technologies of the weapon, with a much more sophisticated than regular missile guidance packages. United States was clearly lead in the development of new technologies, especially in the field of computers. Much processing power required the control of Mirvs needed (for the time), and the only way to do this was with computers. In addition, because of the inverse square law, increased accuracy resulting in deeper cuts in the required sizes of warhead. The Soviet Union did not make investments in computers in the 50 's and 60 's. Stressed that the Soviet Union, in order to be able to develop their own high-tech national security needs. As it was, they had to keep spyware to play in, attempting to maintain parity with the United States for training and computer systems required by MIRVs. In response, the Soviets significantly increased funding for math and science, and they tried to emulate the Western style of research using a competing research teams strive for the same goals. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. The personality and methods in a remarkable judgement Khrushchev Stalin a ruthless. Khrushchev was noted as a bit impulsive and a bit of a gambler.  He started with grand ideas, but not always things through completion of plan. Khrushchev away from Stalin's policies came about as a result of his struggle with his own complicity in the crimes of the regime. He has to survive the great purge was one of the few Bolsheviks, he never forgot promises of the revolution. Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party shut down a meeting of the 1956 Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union was in, to reject Stalinism and to go back to the ideals of Lenin. The intention may have been on point, but Lenin's philosophies were not much softer than that of Stalin; He ruled the party relentlessly, wanting further his own vision at the expense of any and all who stood in his way.  
