 Multiple independently Targetable reentry vehicles. Introduction of MIRVS United States was an important event in the cold war for two reasons. First, it significantly increases the number of targets, a single missile shift the strategic balance, who has that could eliminate Mirvs. Secondly, shortcomings the Soviet Union in high-tech innovation. MIRVS shifted the strategic balance, significantly increasing the damage that can make one missile. Heat and radiation damage caused by a nuclear detonation decreases as the distance of a target increases by the inverse square law. Explosion damage (pressure) reduces the inverse cube of the distance. Therefore, can cause smaller warheads more harmful than a large single warheads. In combination with MIRVs, this means that fewer resources are required to a desired damage threshold. In addition MULTIPLE REENTRY VEHICLES is offset the strategic balance by reducing the effects of salt, which initially limited the number of nuclear missiles without warheads.   MIRVs are advanced technologies of weapons with guidance packages much more sophisticated regular missiles. It is clear that the United States plays a leading role in the development of new technologies, particularly in the area of computers. Training systems required by MIRVs to a lot of processing power (time), the only way to do it with computers. In addition due to the inverse square, improve missile accuracy yielded greater reductions in the required sizes of the warheads. The Soviet Union did not invest heavily into computers in the 50s and 60s. MIRVs highlights the need for national security of the Soviet Union to be able to develop its own high tech internally. In fact, they had to resort to spying caught up trying to maintain compatibility with United States requirements for computer systems and guidance technology. In response, the Soviets massively increased funding for science and math, and tried to emulate Western-style research by taking advantage of competing research teams that strive for the same goals. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. Khrushchev and Stalin's brutal regime ruling methods of personality from a marked departure. Khrushchev was noted as a bit impulsive and a bit of a gambler.  He started with grand ideas, but not always things through completion of plan. Khrushchev's move away from Stalin's policies came about as a result of his struggle with his own complicity in the crimes. He was one of the few Bolsheviks survive the great purges, but never has forgotten the promise of the revolution. A closed meeting of the 20th Congress of the Communist Party in 1956, Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union had to reject Stalinism and return to Lenin's ideals. Intention may have been, but not than those of Stalin Lenin's philosophy; much more soft and his ruthless, excluding any and all party sought to further his own visual impairment standing in his way.
