 Several vehicle re-entry Targetable independently. The introduction of Mirvs on the United States was a major event in the cold war for two reasons. First, it greatly increased the number of objectives that a single missile could eliminate, evolving the strategic balance to whoever has the MIRVs. Second, it highlights shortcomings in the Soviet high technological innovation. The strategic balance by a strong increase of the damage a single missile could do shifted Mirvs. Heat damage, radiation nuclear vmarv reduced inverse square law grows as target. Blast (pressure) decreased by inverse cube of distance. Therefore, smaller warheads can cause more damage than a single large warhead. Combined with MIRVs, this means that fewer resources from a range damage necessary to achieve desired. In addition, the strategic balance by reducing the impact of MIRVs shifted salts, which initially limited the number of nuclear missiles, not warheads.   MIRVS are advanced technology weapons with much more complex than a regular missile guidance packages. United States clearly was especially new technology in the field of computer development in the lead. Routing systems required by gatling need lots of processing power (for the time), and the only way to do it with computers. In addition, due to the inverse square law, improving precision missile had a larger required to reduce the size of the warhead. The Soviet Union, did not invest in the 50's and 60's computer. Stressed the national security needs of Soviet MIRVs proprietary high-tech can be developed internally. As was the case, they had to resort to espionage to catch-up to play and try to maintain parity with the United States for the computer systems and guidance required by MIRV technology. In response, the Soviets massively increased funding for science and math, and competitive research teams strive for the same goals by taking advantage of Western-style research to follow. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. Khrushchev personality and methods of the judgment were a departure marked the ruthless reign of Stalin. Khrushchev was noted as an impulsive and a little bit of a gambler.  Plotting the grand ideas, but were not always plan things through to completion. Khrushchev output of Stalin's policies came as a result of his struggle with his own complicity in the crimes of the regime. He was one of the few Bolsheviks to survive the great purges, but he had never forgotten the promise of the revolution. In a closed meeting of the 20th Congress of the Communist Party in 1956, Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union had to reject Stalinism and return to the ideals of Lenin. The intention may have been on point, but Lenin's philosophies were not much softer than that of Stalin; He ruled the party relentlessly, wanting further his own vision at the expense of any and all who stood in his way.  
