 Multiple vehicle re-entry and independently. The introduction of MIRVs by the United States was a major event in the cold war for two reasons. First, it's a significant increase in the number of goals that could eliminate one rocket, shift the strategic balance of his gatling. Secondly, he emphasized the Soviet weaknesses in high-tech innovation. The strategic balance shifted by the damage that one missile MIRVs could do to increase strongly. Heat and radiation damage from a nuclear explosion is decreasing as distance from the goal of increasing the law backward square. Damage blast (click) decreasing the inverse cube of the distance. Therefore, smaller rockets can cause further damage to the bigger one. Combined with MIRVs, this means that fewer resources must reach a threshold of damage desired. In addition, shifted the strategic balance by MIRVs reducing the impact of salt, which was initially the number of nuclear missiles, warheads not restricted.   Advanced weapons technology, using the guidance package than many conventional missile complex. The United States was clearly in the lead role in the development of new technologies, especially in the field of computers. Management systems require MULTIPLE REENTRY VEHICLES need a lot of computing power (at the time), and the only way to do it with computers. In addition, due to the inverse square law, increasing the precision of a missile he had thrown further reductions in required sizes of warheads. The Soviet Union did not invest in computers in the 1950s and 1960s. Develop your high-tech MIRVs internally to the Soviet Union to be able to highlight national security needs. As it was, they had to resort to spying play catch-up/trying to save parity with the United States for computer systems and technology leadership of MIRVS. Response massively increased the Soviet funding for science and mathematics, and they tried to emulate Western style, taking advantage of competing research teams, seeking the same goals research. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. Khrushchev of personality and pronunciation methods were a marked departure from the ruthless reign of Stalin. Khrushchev stated to be impulsive, a gambler.  Great ideas, but the journey is always not to plan things. Stalin policies of Khrushchev's departure from his own fight because he was complicit in the crimes of the regime. He was one of the few Bolsheviks to survive the great purge, but he had never forgotten the promise of the revolution. At a closed meeting of the 20 1956 Party Congress of the Communist Party said Khrushchev, Soviet Union reject Stalinism and had back to the ideal of Lenin. The intent may be to the point, but Lenin's philosophies were much softer than Stalin; the party, trying to further his own vision of a ruthlessly ruled at the expense of all who stood in their way.  
