 Multiple master-a prisoner vehicle. The introduction of MIRVs by the United States was a major event in the cold war for two reasons. Firstly, he greatly increased the number of goals that could eliminate one missile, shifting the strategic balance is the one who has MULTIPLE REENTRY VEHICLES. Secondly, highlighted the shortcomings of Soviet technology innovation. The strategic balance shifted by the damage that one missile MIRVs could do to increase strongly. Decrease of heat from nuclear explosions and radiation damage increases in inverse square law as the distance from the target. Decreases by the inverse cube of the distance (pressure) blast damage. Therefore, a single large bomb damage from small warheads. Combined with MIRVs, and fewer resources to achieve the objective damage threshold for the means required. In addition, the strategic balance in the MIRVs, by reducing the impact of salt, you limit the number of nuclear missiles, the battle for no.   Gatling advanced weapons technology, with packets now more sophisticated than regular rockets. The United States was clearly in the lead in the development of new technologies, particularly in the area of computers. Much needed guidance system capacity required by MIRVs (of time), and the only way to do this in the computer was. In addition, because of the inverse square law, brought greater reductions in the size of the requested increases the accuracy of the missile warheads. The Soviet Union did not invested heavily in computers in the 1950s and 1960. MIRV has stressed the need for national security for the Soviet Union be able to develop their own high-tech internally. It was so could not help and try to keep parity with the necessary leadership skills by MIRVs and United States play / computer systems catch up, forced the spying. In response, the Soviets massively increased funding for science and mathematics, and they tried to imitate Western-style research by taking advantage of the research teams to the same objectives. Khrushchev took office as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. Khrushchev of personality and pronunciation methods were a marked departure from the ruthless reign of Stalin. Little Khrushchev was a bit shocked and gamblers as well. There he embarked on the grand ideas no plan always complete. As a result from the departure Stalin Khrushchev's policy struggles of his accomplices that came with the crimes of his regime. He was one of the few Bolsheviks to survive the great purge, but he never forgot the promise of the revolution. Closed session of the 20th Congress of the Communist Party in 1956, Khrushchev declared that the SOVIET UNION had to reject Stalinism and return to the ideals of Lenin. The intention may have been the point, but Lenin philosophies were much softer than Stalin; He ruled the party ruthlessly, trying to follow their own vision at the expense of those who were on their way.  
