 Multiple vehicles belonging to target independently. Gatling was entering the United States an important event in the cold war for two reasons. First off, dramatically single missile's goal of increasing can eliminate the strategic balance with MIRVs shift to him. Second, it has highlighted Soviet deficiencies high-tech innovation. MIRVs strategic balance can damage a single missile was moved to by. Heat and radiation damage caused by a nuclear detonation decreases as the distance of a target increases by the inverse square law. Blast furnace (pressure), damage reduced the inverse cube of the distance. Therefore, smaller warheads can cause greater damage than a single large warhead. In combination with MIRVs, this means that fewer resources are required to a desired damage threshold. In addition, guided by initially limiting nuclear missiles for salt reduction, does not affect the strategic balance of transfers of nuclear warheads. MIRVs are advanced weapon technologies, with guidance packages much more sophisticated than regular missiles. The United States was clearly in mind in the development technologies, especially in the field of computer science. Guide required guidance systems (long time), requires a lot of processing power, the only way to do this is with your computer. Moreover, because of the inverse square law yielded increase accuracy of a rocket stronger reductions in required sizes of nuclear warheads. Soviet heavy 50s and 60s had invested in computers. MIRVs stresses the need for national security for the former Soviet Union after to be able to develop their own high tech internally. As it was, they had to resort to spying on playing catch-up attempts to maintain parity with the United States on computer/systems and technologies of the instructions required by MIRVs. In response, the Soviets massively increased funding for science and math and tried to emulate Western-style research, taking advantage of competing research teams looking for the same objectives. Khrushchev came to power as the first Secretary in 1953, after Stalin's death. Khrushchev's personality and the ruling marked departure from ruthless reign of Stalin were methods. Khrushchev was noted as being somewhat impulsive and a little bit of a player.  He had embarked on big ideas, but not always plan things through completion. The departure of Khrushchev's policy of Stalin in his struggle with itself follows the accessibility of the regime crimes. Survival cleared he was a Bolshevik, but he will never forget the revolutionary promise. At a closed meeting of the twentieth Congress of the Communist Party in 1956 Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union had to reject Stalinism and return to ideals of Lenin. This point, but Lenin's philosophies were softer than those of Stalin; He ruled the party intended to promote mercilessly, his vision to all who stood in his way.  
