 Multiple independently Targetable Reentry vehicles. The introduction of MIRVS by the United States was an important event in the cold war for two reasons. First, it greatly increases the number of targets that can eliminate a single missile, displacement of the strategic balance for the one who has the MIRVS. Secondly, it highlights the deficiencies in the high-tech innovation of the Soviet. MIRVs took the strategic balance by increasing significantly the damage one can do stiel. The heat from a nuclear blast and radiation damage decreases as distance from a target increases by inverse square law. Explosion (pressure) the inverse cube of the distance decreases damage. Therefore, smaller warheads can damage more than a single large warhead. Along with gatling, this means that fewer resources are needed to achieve the required damage threshold. In addition, MIRVs had moved the strategic balance by reducing the impact of salt, which had initially limited the number of nuclear missiles, not warheads.   MIRVs weapon technology, guidance packages regularly with advanced sophisticated missiles than ever. The United States, was clearly at the forefront in the development of new technologies, in particular in the field of the computer. The prescribed MIRVs guidance systems much processing power needed (for the time), and the only way to do this was with computers. In addition, because of the inverse square law, increasing the accuracy of a large sizes required for discounts on their missile. The Soviet Union invested heavily in the 50s and 60s, not to computers. MIRVs stressed the need for national security for the Soviet Union to be able to develop their own high tech intern. As it was, she had to resort to espionage to play catch-up/tries to parity with the United States for the computer systems and technologies that guidance needed by MIRVs. In response, the Soviets massively more resources for science and mathematics, and they tried to Western style research by taking advantage of competitive research teams strive for the same goals. Khrushchev came to power as first Secretary in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. Khrushchev personality and decision methods were a marked departure from the ruthless reign of Stalin. Khrushchev being slightly impulsive and a bit of a gambler was noted as she started on the grand ideas, but always through things planned for completion. Khrushchev of departure of Stalin's policy came about as a result of his struggle with his own complicity in the crimes of the regime. He was one of the few Bolsheviks to survive the great purges, but he never forget the promise of the revolution. In 1956, private meetings of the party's 20th Congress, Khrushchev declared that the Soviet Union had to reject Stalinism and return to Lenin's ideal. Point to the intent, could have been the thought of Lenin soft did much more than those of Stalin; he stood to his party ruthlessly, my vision to all victims, seeking further dominated.
