 This is the ideal solution for users can completely to see the world around them. Christopher T Cannon is group leader of sensory substitution. Drexel University. I graduated from Drexel University computer science and systems research, Department of biomedical engineering PhD. He has more than 20 years of experience developing alternative electrotactile sensory and tactile display interface. We would like to continue the research that was done previously on this subject. There are many improvements and safety precautions that need to be examined in order to make this product available to the public. Such a way, that device can be improved is by the miniaturization of equipment. Devices using the all day very cumbersome and wear is unrealistic. What we would like to focus is the size of the base unit initially declined. Most users will attach this large field to their lower back. This prevents sitting and many other activities. Is to create what we want to do, and fits into a shirt or pants pocket small base units. We want to improve the different items is camera image system. Our glasses of I wireless, send the information base unit wanted to build three of these cameras. Finally from need for comfort we want to design a mouth guard on the tongue display unit in place. Users to become comfortable in not more, also maintains a solid point of reference image the user is seeing. Another improvement we want to achieve lower cost devices. At this time, it costs $ 5000 BrainPort device. For most people, this price is very unacceptable. We want to continue to study how to use General and advanced hardware to emulate the hardware we use our current prototype parent. Finally, we would like to look at the long-term effects of using this equipment. All of the studies done in the past on the BrainPort technology is not taken into account the long-term adverse effects of using this equipment. At the end of the other papers disappeared into this subject is describing people who have used the technology for several hours they say BrainPort taste metallic is their mouth. Perhaps could this lead all together metallic taste to a loss of taste? We want to do extensive user testing to see if any of the side effects of using this device. This research, not only the hope of creating a tool for people who are blind or visually impaired, but also help to other fields of research and disability. One of such areas is that this technology could help improve balance, vestibular disorders is with disturbances of the people specifically. Our products balance, gait, posture, and other related symptoms will improve. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who tend to be dizzy and have a sense of balance disturbance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
