 This is the ideal resolution for users to be able to see the world around them. Christopher t. the Cannon is head of the sensory substitution group at Drexel University. He graduated from Derai, PhD in computer science and biomedical engineering at the University of. He has over 20 years of experience designing tactile displays and tactile interfaces for touch electro replacement. We would further research, which was previously carried out on this topic. There are many improvements and safety measures that need to be examined, so that this product available to the public. Such a way that this device can be improved is by miniaturizing of the hardware. For each day, the device is very practical to wear cumbersome. What we would like to focus on the first reduced the size of the base unit. Most users attached to this large box of the lower back. This sitting and many other activities. What we do is create a much smaller base that can fit into shirt pocket or pants. Is another item we would like to improve the camera image. We would like to build these three cameras to a pair of glasses that will then wirelessly to transmit this information to the base unit. Finally we want to design out of necessity for comfort, a harsh, to hold the tongue display unit. Not only it would be more comfortable for the user, but it also retains a solid point of reference for the image that users see. We want to achieve is another improvement has lowered the cost of the device. At this point, of the BrainPort device costs $ 5,000. For most people, the price is very affordable. We want to do further research on the use of generic and cheap hardware to mimic the advanced hardware that we use in our current prototype. Lastly, we look at the long term effects of using the device for. All of the studies that were made before the BrainPort technology has not taken into account long term side effects of using this device. Farthest paper has entered the BrainPort technology that is described in this topic for a few hours the users say that they have a slight metallic taste in their mouth. Perhaps this metallic taste can lead to loss of taste together? We'll see what if any side effects are using the device to test the broad users. This research not only blind or visually disabled persons we have a tool to create, but also help other disabilities and research area. Such an area that this technology could help improve is people with balance disorders, specifically the vestibular disorders. Our product would help improve balance, gait, posture and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are often people have dizziness, impaired sense of balance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
