 It is the ideal solution for users to fully see the world around them. Is Christopher T. Cannon Drexel sensory substitution group head. He graduated from Drexel University with his Ph.d. in computer science and biomedical technology. He has more than 20 years, the experience developing haptic displays and electro tactile interfaces for sensory substitution. We want to advance the research that previously made on this subject has done. Many improvements and reviews, providing to the public the security precautions required for this product. This device provides enhanced is through a miniaturized hardware. Use for the whole day, it is very cumbersome and impractical to wear. What we would like to focus on decreasing the size of the base unit first. Most of the users focus this large box saluted back. Gets this way of sitting and many other activities. What we would do is create a much smaller base unit that can fit in your shirt pocket or pants. Another item that we would like to improve this system camera images. We would like to incorporate these three cameras to a pair of glasses which then wirelessly transmits the information to the base unit. Lastly, we need to relax out of a mouth guard tongue display unit designed to hold in place. Not only is it more comfortable for the user, but also a solid reference point image that users are looking for. Another improvement, that we want to achieve is lowering the cost of the device. At that time, a BrainPort device costs $5,000. For most people, these exorbitant prices too. We want to do further research on the use of generic and cheap hardware to mimic the advanced hardware that we use in our current prototype. Finally, we would like to examine the long-term effects of the use of this device. BrainPort technology has made all previous did not take into account the long-term side effects of using this device. Most gone, other papers in this issue describes that users who have used the BrainPort technology for a couple of hours say they have a slight metallic taste in the mouth after that. Maybe the metal taste loss could lead to all together? We would like to do an extensive user testing to see what are the side effects when using this equipment. This research, we hope not only to create a tool for people who are blind or visually impaired, but also help other disabilities and fields of research. Such an area is that this technology can help improve people with balance disorders, specific vestibular disorders. Our product would help improve balance, gait, posture, and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who often feel dizziness and imbalance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
