 It is absolutely the world around them to be able to see is the ideal solution for users. Cannon t. Christopher sensory substitution group head at Drexel University. He graduated from Drexel University with a Ph.d. in computer science and biomedical engineering. He has more than 20 years of experience developing haptic appears, and electro-tactile interfaces for sensory substitution. We would like to further study has previously been done on this topic. There are lots of improvements and precautions that need to be addressed in order to make this product available to the public. One, in a way, this device can increase is miniaturizing the hardware. All day use, the device is very cumbersome and impractical to wear. What we would like to focus first is decreasing the size of the base unit. Most users will this big box attach to their lower back. This is in the way and many other activities. What we would like to do is create a much smaller base unit that can fit in a shirt or pants pocket. Another point we want to improve is the camera image system. We would like to build these three cameras in a pair of glasses which will then forward to the wireless network information to the base unit. Finally on the need for comfort, we wish to develop a mouth guard to keep the language in place display unit. Not only will it be more user-friendly, but it also keeps a strong reference point for the image that users see. Another improvement that we would like to achieve is to reduce the cost of the device. At the moment, BrainPort device costs $5,000. For most people, this price is very unaffordable. We would do more research as you use generic and cheap hardware, to mimic the advanced hardware that we use in our current prototype. Finally, we look at the long-term effects of using this device. All earlier studies on BrainPort technology have not taken into account the side effects long term use of this device. Other papers have gone Furthest in this case is that the subject describe a BrainPort technology users, which is used for a couple of hours later to say that they have a slight taste of metal in their mouth. Perhaps this metallic taste may lead to loss of taste all together? We would like to do extensive user tests to see if any are the side effects of the use of this device. I hope, only to create a tool for blind and visually impaired individuals from this research also helps research fields and other disabilities. One such area that the technology can help improve that people with impaired balance, particularly vestibular disorders. Our products will help improve balance, gait, posture, and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals, the often dizzy and have a disturbed sense of balance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
