 This is the ideal resolution for users can completely see the world around them. Christopher t. In sensory substitution group head of Drexel University cannon. He is a graduate of Drexel University with his doctorate in computer science and biomedical engineering. He has more than 20 years of experience developing haptic appears, and electro-tactile interfaces for sensory substitution. We want to promote research done in the past on this issue. There are many improvements and safety precautions that need to be studied in order to make this product available to the public. One way you can enhance this device is small hardware. For every day use, the device is very cumbersome and impractical to wear. We would like to focus on the decline for the first time the size of the base unit. Most users will be this big box attach to their lower back. This will sit in the way and many other activities. What we would like to do, is create a much smaller base unit that can fit in a shirt or pants pocket. The next item we wanted to improve the image of the camera is. We want to build these three cameras into a pair of glasses which wirelessly then will transmit the information to the base unit. Finally, from the need for comfort we design a tongue display unit Mouthguard wants to think. It would not only be more comfortable for the user, but it also maintains a solid point of reference for the image that users see. Another improvement that we want to achieve is to reduce the cost of the device. At this point in time, costs $ 5,000 a Brainport device. For most people, this price is very prohibitive. We would like to do further research on how to use generic and cheap hardware used to imitate us in our current prototype advanced hardware. Finally, we'd like to see the long-term effects of using this device. All previously on BrainPort technology does not take into account the long-term side effects of using this device. Other documents have been removed in this topic describes that users who used the BrainPort technology for a couple of hours say they have a metallic taste in their mouth. Perhaps this metallic taste may lead to a loss of taste all together? We would like to do an extensive user testing to see what if any side effects of using this device. From this research, we not only hope to create a tool for blind or partially sighted people, but also help others with disabilities and research area. One area such that this technology can help improve it people with vestibular disorders, balance disorders. Our product will help improve balance, posture, gait, and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who often dizzy and have a reduced sense of balance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
