 This is the ideal solution for users to be able to see the world around them completely. Christopher t. Cannon is Director of the sensory substitution group at Drexel University. He graduated from Drexel University with his doctorate in biomedical engineering and computer science. He has over 20 years of experience developing haptic displays and electrical interfaces tactile sensory substitution. We would like more research has been done earlier in this topic. There are several improvements and safety precautions need this product to make it available to the public to be examined. A so that it can be improved is by the miniaturization of hardware. For all day use, the device is very difficult and impractical to wear. What we want to focus on first base unit sizing. Most users will this big box attach to their lower back. Sitting on it gets interfered with many other activities. What we would like to do is to create a much smaller base unit that can fit in a shirt or pants pocket. Another element that we like to improve is the image of the camera system. We would like to build these three cameras into a pair of glasses, which then wirelessly transmit information to the base unit. Finally out of need for comfort, we would design a mouth guard tongue display unit in place. Not only that it is more convenient for the user, but it also saves a reference point for the image that you see. We would like to achieve another improvement is reducing the cost of the device. At this point in time, costs $ 5,000 a Brainport device. For most people, this price is very priceless. Do more research about using generics using our current prototype, to mimic the advanced hardware and cheap hardware I want. Finally, we want to look at the long-term effects of using this device. Not all of the studies conducted on BrainPort technology has taken into account the long-term side effects of using this device. Most other papers went to this topic is to describe to users who used the BrainPort technology for a couple of hours say they have a slight metallic taste in their mouth after that. Probably lead this metallic taste taste loss all together is or. We would like to do an extensive user testing to see if any of the side effects of using this device. From this research, we hope to create an instrument not only for blind or visually impaired individuals, but also help other disabilities and research areas. One such area is that this technology can help improve people with balance disorders, specifically the vestibular disorder. Our product will help improve balance, posture, gait and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who often dizzy and have a reduced sense of balance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
