 This is the ideal solution for users completely can see the world around them. Christopher T. Cannon is the group leader of sensory substitution in Drexel University. He graduated from Drexel University with a doctorate in computer science and biomedical engineering. He has over 20 years experience in training haptic displays and electro-tactile interfaces for sensory substitution. We would like to continue the study, which was previously done on this topic. There are many improvements and safety precautions that need to be examined in order to make this product available to the public. One way that this device can be strengthened, miniaturizing the equipment. For all day use, the device is very cumbersome and impractical to wear. What we want to focus on first, it reduces the size of the base unit. Most users will give their lower back is a big field. This interferes with session and many other activities. What we want is a shirt or pants pocket can fit into a very small base unit. Another element that we would like to improve is the camera image system. We would like to build these three cameras in the glasses, which will then wirelessly transmit information to the base unit. Finally out of need for comfort, we would like to design a mouth guard to keep the display of the language unit in place. Not only would it be more convenient for the user, but it also keeps the hard point of reference for the image that users see. Another improvement we would like to reduce the cost of device. At the time of the BrainPort device costs $ 5000. For most people, this price is very priceless. We would like to do more research on the use of generic and cheap equipment to mimic the advanced hardware that we use in our current prototype. Last use of this device is looking at the long term effects would you like. All long-term side effects study of BrainPort technology earlier do not consider using this device. Other papers to this have done, is the most distant after that taste in my mouth a few metal users use a couple hours BrainPort technology topic. Metallic taste, maybe it can lead to loss of taste? We want to do an extensive user testing to see what happens if they are side effects of using this device. From this research, we hope to create an instrument not only for blind or visually impaired individuals, but also help other disabilities and research areas. One of those areas that this technology could help improve is people with disorders of balance, specifically disorders vestibular. Our products are balance, gait, posture, and other related symptoms will help. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals, who are often dizzy and have a reduced sense of balance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
