 This solution is ideal for users to have the opportunity to see the world around them. Christopher t. the Cannon is head of the sensory substitution group at Drexel University. The computer science and biomedical engineering in Ph. D. Graduated from Drexel University with. He has more than 20 years of experience developing haptic display for sensory substitution and electro-tactile interface. We would like to research further, that has been done so far on this issue. There are many improvements and security measures, which are checked, this product the public must make available. Such a way that this device can be improved is by miniaturizing of the hardware. For the whole day use, the device is very cumbersome and impractical to wear. What we would like to focus on the first decreases the size of the base unit. The majority of users attach this big box to your lower back. It is usually sitting and many others. What we like to do is create a unit much smaller that fits in a shirt or pants pocket. We would like to improve other camera system. We want to build these three cameras in a few glasses that the information to the base unit then Wireless will pass. Finally, we would like to suggest a need for comfort from the mouth of the guard on the language of the display on the site. Not only would it more comfortable for the user, but it also keeps a solid starting point for the image that users see. Another improvement that we would like to reduce the cost of the device. At this point, the BrainPort device costs $ 5,000. For most people, the price is unaffordable. We use advanced hardware we have our current prototype at how to mimic research on common and cheap hardware to use. Finally, we want to look at the long-term effects of the use of this device. All studies on the BrainPort technology previously done unless you have taken into account long-term side effects of the use of this device. Completely different to perform the theme describes that users who use the BrainPort technology for a few hours, say, then they have a slightly metallic taste in their mouth. Perhaps this metallic taste may lead to a loss of taste together? We would like to extensive testing to see what happens when the side effects of the use of this device are. From this research, we hope not only to create a tool for people who are blind or visually impaired, but also help the disabled and other research areas. Are people with balance disorders, especially vestibular disease can help improve this technology. Our product would help to improve the balance, walk, posture and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are often giddy and individuals who have an impaired sense of balance are classified as.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
