 This is the ideal solution for users to be able to fully see the world around them. Christopher t. Cannon is the head of sensory Substitution group at Drexel University. He graduated from Drexel University with his Ph.d. in computer science and biomedical technology. He has more than 20 years of experience developing Haptic display for sensory substitution and electro-Touch interface. We want to advance the research that previously made on this subject has done. There are many improvements, caution need to be examined to make this product available to the public. One can improve this device is miniaturizing the hardware. For all day, use, the unit is very heavy and impractical to wear. What would we like to focus on decreasing the size of the base unit first. For most users this big box to give your lower back. This example gets sitting and many other activities. We want to do is create a smaller base unit can hold a shirt or pants pocket. Another item we would like to improve on the camera image system. We would like a few glasses these three cameras to incorporate, then wirelessly transmitted the information to the base unit. Finally from the comfort needs, we would like to design your mouth guard held in local tongue display unit. Not only more comfortable for users, it also preserves the user seeing the image of a solid point of reference. Another improvement that we would like to achieve is to reduce the cost of the device. At this time, a BrainPort device costs $5,000. In most cases, this price is very prohibitive. We would like to investigate more about how generic and cheap hardware used to mimic the advanced hardware that we use in our current prototype. Finally, we might want to look at the long-term effects of the use of this device. All previously done on the Brainport technology studies have the long-term side effects of using this device not taken into account. Other documents have gone furthest in this topic describe the Brainport technology is that users who have used for a couple of hours say they have a slight metallic taste in their mouth after that. Maybe this metallic taste may lead to a loss of taste all together? We would like to do extensive user testing to see what if any are the side effects of the use of this device. This research, we not only hope to create a tool for people who are blind or visually impaired, but also help other research interests and limits. Such an area is that this technology can help improve people with balance disorders, specific vestibular disorders. Our product would help improve balance, gait, posture, and other related symptoms. Vestibular disease is classified as a disability, balance of feeling dizzy often, people.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
