 This is the ideal solution for users can completely to see the world around them. Christopher t. Cannon is group of sensory substitution cemetery co in Drexel University. He graduated from the University with a doctorate in computer science cemetery co in Drexel, biomedical engineering. And again, he has 20 years experience developing haptic displays and interfaces the tactile sensory substitution for electromagnetic fields. We would like to continue the research that has been done previously in this topic. Inspection is required for improvements and safety notes use the product in General. This way one can be enhanced this device miniaturization of devices. For the entire day, the device is very cumbersome and impractical to carry. First focus on lavish in its construcution has reduced the size of the base unit. Most users will connect to the lower back of the big box. It gets in the way of seating and many other activities. What we want to do is create a much smaller base unit that can fit into your Pocket shirts or pants. Another element to improve we would like is the camera image system. We wanted to make these three cameras into a pair of glasses, and then the basic unit of wireless transmission of information. Finally from need for comfort we want to design a mouth guard on the tongue display unit in place. Not only, it would be more convenient for the user, but also a fixed point of reference considers it the picture that a user will see. Another improvement would be achieved by reducing the costs of equipment we would like to. At this point in time is worth $ 5000 device BrainPort. For most people it's price is very inaccessible. We would like to use generic and cheap hardware to further research on imitating the advanced hardware, which we use in our current prototype. Finally, we would like to look at the effects in the long term of the use of this device. All studies conducted previously on BrainPort technology did not took into account side effects long term of the use of this device. The most distant of the other documents went in this described topic that users who have used the BrainPort technology for a few hours say they have a slight metallic taste in the mouth later. Perhaps could it lead this metallic taste to a loss of taste all together? We either see if there are side effects of using this device with extensive user testing line singing I think. From this research, we don't just hope for the blind or visually impaired individuals, creating a tool, but also other persons with disabilities, and fields of study. One such area that this technology could improve, is people with balance disorders, especially vestibular errors. Our products will help improve balance and gait and posture and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who often dizziness and a violation of the sense of balance.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
