 This is the ideal solution so that users can fully see the world around them. Christopher t. Cannon is the head of sensory substitution group at Drexel University. He graduated from Drexel University with a PhD in computer science and biomedical engineering. It has more than 20 years of experience developing haptic sample and electro-tactile interfaces for sensory substitution. I'd like to research previously done this topic further. There are many improvements and safety precautions that should be considered for this product is available to the public. Such a way can be extended by this device hardware miniaturizing. Use for every day, very stressful and impractical to wear. What we would like to focus on decreasing the size of the base unit first. Most users will attach this big box to the lower back. This is in the way and many other activities. What we would like to do is create a much smaller base unit that can fit in a shirt or pants pocket. Another point we want to improve is the camera image system. We then will transmit information wirelessly to the base unit in a pair of glasses to create these three cameras. Finally out of need for comfort, we want to design a mouth guard to hold the display unit in place of the tongue. Not only will more comfortable for the user, but it also keeps a solid point of reference for the image that is seeing users. Another improvement that we would like to achieve is to reduce the cost of the device. At this point in time, the BrainPort device costs $ 5,000. For most people, this price is very unaffordable. We would like to further research on how to use the generic and cheap equipment to simulate advanced hardware that we use in our current prototype. Finally, we might want to look at the long-term effects of the use of this device. All previously done on the Brainport technology studies have the long-term side effects of using this device not taken into account. Other documents have gone furthest in this topic describe the Brainport technology is that users who have used for a couple of hours say they have a slight metallic taste in their mouth after that. Maybe this metallic taste may lead to a loss of taste all together? We would like to do extensive user testing to see what if any are the side effects of the use of this device. From this research we hope not only that a tool for blind or visually impaired people to create, but also other disabilities and research areas. Is such a field, this technique can improve balance disorders, especially vestibular disease in people. Our product would help improve balance, gait, posture and other related symptoms. Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have a sense of balance-impaired.[ Vestibular disorders are classified as individuals who are often dizzy and have an impaired sense of balance.]
