 When I finally am beckoned to a table, I'm (although somehow comforted) surprised by the fact that the waiter apparently not to speak English. Haven't had any seafood on this trip, this place specializes in seafood, where can I order seafood soup followed by shrimp in garlic. Waiter Interchange should be my wife is in the kitchen. Nã or more. He, however, I promise to get a reasonable replacement or so I believe. With this, my order was placed. House wine and water follow a Jarro immediately. The soup is a wonderful, typical Mediterranean (Yes, I know Lisbon is on the Atlantic Ocean) bisque with generous amounts of shrimp brains for body and taste. Perhaps this is where all their shrimp disappeared.  I mystery main course will appear next: tiny clam and SI. I must be honest and say that I am something disappointed; the other trusting in the cooking of bivalve molluscs explains the dangers not only Tony in his book, but these shells are so tiny that I have to work pretty hard for my food. All reservations are lost, however, after my first taste. The broth, in which they were cooked seems to be irresistible combination of olive oil, butter, garlic, coriander, onion and delicious natural liquor. After the transformation of my dish to a pile of empty shells, the boy reappeared to see if I wanted to desert. He didn't bring a menu because the desert menu are not (or if they are, they probably have the same desert that his wife up and last night decided to put in the case of refrigeration). I put my fate in his hands, once again this time with a bit more well-deserved confidence. What seems to be some sort of divine will, seemingly flourless chocolate cake pudding, dioxin. Delicious. It is dawn and I'm headed to the train station to hop into the small North Atlantic Beach town of Estoril, once known as a vacation spot for European royalty Victorian era, known mainly for his glitzy Casino but I know. I had just visited Estoril on my first trip to Portugal; I lived in Cascais, the neighboring city, only 15 minutes (or five minutes moped ride as it was) along the coast. In some respects, certainly relative to Atlantic City is Las Vegas Estoril is a Monte Carlo; However, such an analogy is a large part of the degrading both Estoril and Monte Carlo. Check in the hotel, just off the Casino, and rush over to the venue of the Conference is, on the outskirts of Cascais, just a 10-minute walk away. The Conference, a bit surprisingly, decided to have a catered lunch for the participants, but one day for all, which is pretty convenient. Given that Cascais and Estoril economies almost entirely tourism and gambling are powered by their type, there are several restaurants are not available for lunching (Marx would probably not have been very keen on gambling).
