 Is signalling to the table and finally I (some consolation that ? are waiters, to speak English does not appear, really surprised. And I didn't have any seafood in this trip, yet, of specializing in seafood this place and so ordered the seafood soup followed by the garlic shrimp. The waiter is a Exchange with his alleged wife in the kitchen. Nã o corn. He promises, even if, for me a reasonable replacement, or if I think. However, placed my order. A jug of water and wine of the House follow promptly. The soup is a wonderful, typical Mediterranean (Yes, I know, Lisbon is on the Atlantic Ocean) bisque with generous amounts of shrimp brains for body and aroma. Perhaps this is where they all disappeared for shrimp.  My main course: tiny clams and cockles mystery appears next. I have to be honest and say that I am little disappointed; not only is Tony explained in his book the dangers of the trust of others in the kitchen of Bivalves, but these shells are so small that I'm going to have to work pretty hard for my meal. Lost all reservations, however, after my first taste. They are boiled broth seemed irresistible extra virgin olive oil, butter, garlic, parsley, onions, and delicious combination of natural wine. After converting my dish to a slew of empty shells, lectures series of the waiter to see if I wanted to desert. He didn't bring a menu because the desert is not on the menu (or, if this is the case, they may not be his wife decided to make and place it in the same desert last night with refrigeration). Once again put my fate in your hands, this time with a little more deserved confidence. What happens seems to be a kind of divine chocolate cake-like pudding, apparently without flour to the. Delicious. It is dawn and I am heading to the station to hop a train to Estoril, a small Spa Atlantic once known as a vacation spot for European royalty of the Victorian era, but known mostly known for his ostentatious casino. I visited Estoril Portugal on my first trip easily; is just 15 minutes walk from Cascais, and stayed in the neighboring cities ? 5 minutes riding it, or moped ? down the coast. In some respects strictly relative is Atlantic City to Las Vegas as Estoril to Monte Carlo; However, such an analogy is to a large extent degrading both Estoril and Monte Carlo. Check in to the hotel opposite the Casino into meeting venue in just 10 minutes on foot suburb of Cascais. Conference, somewhat surprisingly, decided to meet for lunch for the participants to all but one of the days, which is very convenient. Given the fact that Cascais and Estoril the economies are driven almost exclusively by tourism and gambling, there is not much of my kind restaurants for lunch available (Marx probably would not have been very enthusiastic about the gambling).
