 No one likes it, and if it's free it's always go at the end. Our Office has a remaining Halloween Candy, sitting in a cafe and it's about 1/3 Banana laffy Taffy, 1/2 tiny Tootsie POPS, and the rest of the mixture. It started with one lot of Strawberry and banana Laffy Taffy. More like candy makers stop forcing the worlds we have banana, the better. Technically, every day I get free lunch. But today's lunch was good cause we went to Asia in the new place across the street to celebrate the nearly completed reports. This place is pretty sweet, we had the lettuce wraps which i ' ld never before. They are pretty much a bunch of lettuce leaves and good things that you pick up the with lettuce as something of type shell taco. I also have a teriaki beef Bowl which was pretty awesome. Great way to get amped for the weekend!  Back a long time ago, I think, my family actually had a Turkey for thanksgiving. But we traded hosting each year with one of my uncle from Connecticut. Having Turkey on Turkey day has become a problem when us kids got in high school and was supposed to play football Thanksgiving Day (most of us were in the group, but I got the groups and football Wahoo). So after the game, non-host packed and drove 3 hours. Driving 3 hours is not completely your mood, instructions to build and devour a lot of dinners. The plan was formed, have the Turkey on Black Friday! Gradually, the lasagna is a crop on Thursday and had a better offer after 6 or 7 overtime game during which many parents in the stands were worrying about Turkey getting burned. We had enjoyed full no such question and cold morning, moved the team to victory. And this is the story of Thanksgiving traditional lasagna. Yesterday was pretty good. We had ruebens and pie chicken pot with amazing black bean cakes and cheese grits. Unfortunately, lunchtime will not receive the correct perception is because it was located between the famous Dave from Monday and all star lineup today. Today at lunch, definitely deserves the status Wednesday. Flounder and Rosemary Chicken for the meat (beef Burgundy was also a choice, but too many mushrooms). Pasta with egg noodles formof or ziti. And the vegetables are Creamed Spinach and carrots. Corn chowder is also the souup that caps things off nicely. I will try on the weekend, when an alert system will be in some national noise for a couple more posts before overtime. So last night was the company Christmas party and it was amazing. Among the choices of food was steak, Turkey, several pasta and rice, sushi, mini burgers, pigs in a blanket and many other things that I don't remember even. The best thing I had was definitely shrimp wrapped in bacon was amazing.
