 Nobody really likes it, if it is always the last to go free. Laffy banana had the Halloween Candy, sitting in our Office Cafe 1 / 3 is a mix of 1 / 2 small Tootsie POPs and the rest. There's also began laffy amount of strawberries and banana. Thus rather than candy makers, forcing us to stop the worlds of bananas, the better. Technically, every day, I get a free lunch. But today, lunch was better cause we went out to the new Asian village across the street to celebrate the reports are almost ready. This place is pretty sweet, we had the lettuce wraps never before i ' ld. They are all pretty good stuff that you lettuce or scoop into them using the shell taco lettuce as the type. I also had a teriaki beef Bowl which was pretty awesome. A great way to get the weekend amped!  Back long ago, I think my family actually had Turkey on thanksgiving. But we were hosting each year with one of my uncles from Connecticut. You have Turkey day of Turkey became a problem when we the children to school and had to participate in the Thanksgiving Day football game (most of us were in band, but I got wahoo band and football). So after the game, the host had not packed up and drove 3 hours. Driving 3 hours does not put you exactly in the mood to help build and devour huge dinner. So that was the plan, you have Turkey on Black Friday! Gradually the lasagna was a staple food on Thursday and had his best showing after 6 or 7 overtime games, during which many of the parents in the stands were concerned about Turkey burns. We had no issue and fully appreciated the morning cold as the team went on to win. And that is the traditional story of Thanksgiving lasagne. Yesterday was pretty good. We have amazing black bean cakes with ruebens and chicken and cheese Pot Pie of oats. Unfortunately that lunch will not receive proper recognition is because it was sandwiched between the famous Dave's of Monday and an all-star line-up today. Lunch today is certainly worthy of the status of Wednesday. Flounder, rosmary roasted chicken for meat (red meat wine was also possible but too many mushrooms). Egg noodle shaped pasta or ziti swollen. Mokrmim vegetables and spinach. Corn chowder is also things souup Cap well. I'll try to get a few more posts before the end of the week, when forwarding an alert system is some national overtime.  So last night was amazing and the company holiday party. The election was the steak, Turkey, more food and sushi, mini burgers, pastas, rices pigs in the blanket, and a lot of other things that i cant even remember. The best, what I had but was definitely shrimp wrapped in Bacon which was awesome.
