 Nobody really likes it, and if it's free it's always the last to go. Our Office has been sitting halloween remains candy coffee and is Taffy laffy bananas to about 1/3, 1/2 small tootsie pop and the rest is a mixture. The name started with Strawberry, banana laffy taffy even. As soon as candy worlds makers stop forcing banana on us, the better. Technically, every day I get a free lunch. But today was the best lunch we went to the new Asian place across the street to celebrate the reports being almost finished. This place is pretty sweet, we had the lettuce wraps that i'ld never had before. They are pretty much a bunch of lettuce leaves and goodies that you can scoop use lettuce as something kind of Taco shells. I also had a teriaki beef Bowl which was pretty awesome. A great way to get amped for the weekend!  Back long ago, I think my family actually had Turkey on thanksgiving. However, we are hosting the trading every year one from Connecticut, my uncle's. Turkey day Turkey when you become an issue, our kids reach high school and attend a football game on Thanksgiving Day (most people in the band, but I'll have to take and football head bonito). So wrapped after the game, the not host and drove 3 hours. 3 hour drive not exactly put you in the mood to help build and devour a massive dinner. So the plan was formed, they have Turkey on Black Friday! Gradually, lasagna was the staple of Thursday the meal and had his best showing after a 6 or 7 overtime game in which many of the parents were in the stands to worry about Turkey get burned. We have the problem, and the full enjoyment of cold mornings, with the team's victory. And that is the story of the Thanksgiving traditional lasagna. Yesterday was pretty good. We were along with the chicken pot pie and ruebens amazing black bean cake and Cheesy Grits. Unfortunately that lunch will not receive proper recognition is because it was sandwiched between the famous Dave's of Monday and an all-star line-up today. Contemporary lunch certainly deserves status on Wednesday. Flounder and rosmary meats (beef Burgundy was an option but also a lot of mushroom) to chicken. Spaghetti egg noodles or saw to oily. Vegetables are the cream spinach and carrots. Also, corn chowder is the souup those things from beautiful caps. I'll try to get a couple more posts before the weekend, when the national alert system will put the rowdy in some overtime.  So yesterday was a company holiday party and it was amazing. In the choice of food is steak, Turkey, multiple Italy noodle and rice, sushi, mini burgers, a blanket, and a lot of other things, I don't even remember pigs. The best thing I had though was definitely shrimp wrapped in Bacon which was awesome.
