 Nobody really likes it, and if it is free, it is always the last to go. We are sitting in the coffee shop in the Office the rest of the Halloween Candy and it is around 3 1 banana laffy toffee, one-second small Tootsie POPs, and the rest of it is a hybrid. There are started with a strawberry and banana laffy taffy even quantity. Used as candy worlds bodies stop making banana at us, so much the better. Technically, all receipt days free lunch. But today's lunch was better, because we went to the new location in Asia across the street to mark the reports is almost finished. This place is pretty sweet, we had Salad Wrap which was never intended. You are pretty much a bunch of lettuce leaves and good things, which you in this with the salad as a Taco Bowl type thing scoop. I also had a bowl of teriaki beef which was quite impressive. Great way to spend the weekend excitement! Go back quite a long time ago, I think my family is actually a Thanksgiving Turkey. But we have traded hosting each year with one of my uncle in Connecticut. The presence of Turkey in Turkey today has become an issue when our children got to high school, was to participate in a football match Thanksgiving (most of us were in the band, but got wahoo band, football). So after the game, non-host is packed and drove 3 hours. 3 Hours driving just build and devour a large dinner for not putting the mood. So this scheme is set up, Turkey on Black Friday! Gradually, the lasagna has become the staple meals on Thursday and had his best performance after an additional game 6 or 7 in which good number of parents in the stands were worrying about the Turkey is burning. We have no such issue and enjoy the cool morning just as the team went on to victory. And this is the history of the traditional Thanksgiving Day lasagna. Yesterday, it was pretty good. We had chicken pot pie and Rubens along with amazing black bean Brownies and Cheesy Grits. Unfortunately lunch does not receive the recognition it is appropriate, because it was caught in the famous Dave's and today's all star lineup on Monday. Lunch today is definitely worthy of the Centre on Wednesday. And rosmary chicken flounder Paralichthys olivaceus (Burgundy beef is also an option, but there are too many mushrooms) meat. Pasta with egg noodles or were in the ziti. And the veggies are Creamed Spinach and carrots. In addition, the corn potage is souup, very well off Cap thing. I'm going to try to get a few jobs before the weekend, when the national system warning turmoil will start sometime extra.  The company holiday party last night and it was amazing. Food choices among multiple pastas and rices, steak, Turkey, mini burgers, pigs in a blanket, sushi, and other stuff that I can't remember nothing in a lot of. The best I had but it was definitely shrimp wrapped in Bacon which was impressive.
