 No one really likes it, and it's always the last to leave if it is free. Our Office has the rest of the halloween candy sitting in the coffee shop and it is about 1/3 banana laffy taffy, tiny tootsie POPs and the rest is a combination of 1/2. There are started with a strawberry and banana laffy taffy even quantity. Sooner as a candy manufacturer in the world to stop forcing us, better bananas. Technically, gets a daily free lunch. But the today's lunch was better cause we went to the new places in Asia on the other side of the road which is reports almost ready celebrate out. This place is pretty sweet, was wrapped lettuce which i ' ld never had before. They are pretty much a bunch of lettuce leaves and good things that you scoop the lettuce in them with a taco shell sort of thing. I also had a bowl of teriaki beef which was quite impressive. Excellent way to get amped for the weekend!  Back a long time ago, I think my family was in fact Turkey on Thanksgiving. But we exchanged hosting each year with one of my uncle in Connecticut. In Turkey about Turkey day was a problem in us children in high school and to participate in the Thanksgiving football game had (most of us were in the band, but I have band and football Wahoo). So, after the game, packed in non-host, 3 hours by car. 3-Hour drive put to construct not just in the mood to devour a massive dinner. This scheme has been set up, on the Turkish Black Friday! Gradually, the Prime Minister and lasagne Thursday 6 or 7 overtime game in the stands during which many Turkish parents were worried about getting burned after its best showing. We did not have any of those issues and he fully enjoyed the cold morning as the team arrived at the victory. And this is the traditional story of Thanksgiving Day lasagna. Yesterday was quite good. We've been Dredging the chicken pot pie, along with an amazing black bean cakes and cheese grits. Unfortunately from the famous Dave's Monday between since it was lunch will not receive it then is the proper recognition, and today's all-star lineup. Today's lunch is definitely worthy of the status of the Centre. Flounder and Rosemary Chicken for meat (beef Burgundy is also an option but too many mushrooms). Pasta with egg noodles or were in the ziti. Creamed Spinach and carrots and veggies. Also, is the corn chowder which caps things off SUP nicely. I will try to get a few more posts in for the weekend, when the national violent warning system will bring in some overtime.  So last night was the celebration of the company and was amazing. Between the options of food was steak, Turkey, various pasta and rice dishes, sushi, mini burgers, pigs in a blanket and a lot of other things I can't remember. Although the best thing is absolutely the shrimp wrapped in Bacon which was awesome.
