 Nobody really likes it, and if it's free it's always the last to go. Our dessert was leftover Halloween sitting in the Cafe la banana Taffy is about 1/3 and 1/2 mini Tootsie POPs, and the rest a mix. He began with a number even of Strawberry and banana laffy taffy. Soon upon us as manufacturers banana candy worlds, better stop forcing. Technically, every day I get a free lunch. Lunch today almost celebrate completion of the report, was the cause of the way we went out to the place across the street, the new Asia. This place is very sweet, we i'ld lettuce packages has never had before. They almost a pile of lettuce leaves and their Taco shell you use lettuce spoon like type of good things. I also had a bowl of teriaki beef, which was pretty awesome. It's a great way to get the weekend angry! Back long ago, I think that my family had the Turkey on Thanksgiving. But we traded hosting each year with one of my uncle from Connecticut. A problem that was when our children to Turkey on Turkey day high school got and had to participate in the thanksgiving day football game (most of us were in the band, but I have both band like football wahoo). If after the match, the host-not packed and leads to 3 hours. 3 hour drive not exactly put you in the mood to help build and devour a massive dinner. So the plan was formed, have Turkey on Black Friday! Gradually, lasagna was the staple of Thursday the meal and had his best showing after a 6 or 7 overtime game in which many of the parents were in the stands to worry about Turkey get burned. We had no such issue and fully enjoyed the cold morning as the team went on to victory. And this is the story of traditional Lasagna for thanksgiving. Yesterday was pretty good. We had chicken pot pie ruebens and together with amazing black bean cakes and cheesy grits. Unfortunately the lunch not receive it is suitable recognition because he interspersed between famous dave on Monday and today a lineup of stars. Contemporary lunch certainly deserves status on Wednesday. Bone and chicken for the meat rosmary (beef Burgundy was also an option but too much mushrooms). Pasta with egg noodles or a ziti. Spinach cream sauce and carrots have a vegetable. Also, corn chowder is the souup those things from beautiful caps. I'll try to get a couple more posts before the weekend, when the national alert system will be putting in some overtime to rowdy.  So last night was the company holiday party and it was great. Among the selection of food was the steak, Turkey, some pasta and dishes, sushi, mini Burgers, pigs in a blanket and a lot of other things that I can't even remember. The best thing I had was definitely shrimp wrapped in Bacon which was awesome.
