 No one really likes, and if it is free always is the last to go. Our Office has had remains of coffee sitting halloween candy is laffy taffy of approximately 1/3 banana, 1/2 small tootsie pops and the rest is a mixture. It began with the same amount of Strawberry and banana laffy Taffy. Soon as the worlds manufacturers candy stop forcing upon us, banana best. Technically, every day I get free lunch. But lunch today best case, that we went to the new Asian place in the street to celebrate the almost completed reports. This place is pretty sweet, we had the lettuce wraps which were not before i'ld. They are pretty much a bunch of lettuce leaves and good that you scoop them into using salad as the taco shell type thing. I also had a bowl of teriaki beef, which was pretty awesome. Great way to Amped for the weekend!  Again, I think my family actually had Turkey on Thanksgiving. But we traded, hosting each year with one of my uncle from Connecticut. A problem that was when our children to Turkey on Turkey day high school got and had to participate in the thanksgiving day football game (most of us were in the band, but I have both band like football wahoo). So after the game, non-host breakfast and drove 3 hours. 3 Hours is not exactly what you are in the mood to help construct and devour massive dinner. So the plan was formed, have Turkey on Black Friday! Step-by-step lasagne was on Thursday the staple meal and had his best result after a 6 or 7 overtime game in which many of the parents in the stands of Turkey risk of Burns care were. We had no such issue and fully enjoyed the cold morning as the team went on to victory. And this is the story of the lasagne traditional Thanksgiving. Yesterday was pretty good. We had chicken pot pie ruebens and together with amazing black bean cakes and cheesy grits. Unfortunately, lunch is not also getting due recognition and today an all star cast is because it was sandwiched between the famous Dave's on Monday. Lunch today is certainly worthy of Wednesday. Bone and chicken for the meat rosmary (beef Burgundy was also an option but too much mushrooms). Pasta with egg noodles put or ziti. And the vegetables are Creamed Spinach and carrots. Corn chowder is also that caps souup things off nicely. I'll try to get some positions more before the end of week, when rowdy warning national system will be a few additional hours.  So last night was the company holiday party and it was great. Among the food choices multiple Turkey steak, rice, pasta, sushi, burgers, mini pigs in a blanket, and a lot of other things that I can't even remember. The best what I though was definitely shrimp, wrapped in bacon, which was amazing.
