 No one really likes it, and if it is free is always the last to go. Our Office had the leftover Halloween Candy, sit outside in the Cafe and it is about 1/3 banana Laffy taffy, 1/2 small Tootsie POPs and the rest is a mix. Laffy Taffy Strawberry and banana there in any amount. Whenever a banana dessert makers forcing worlds we have, the better. Technically speaking, every day I get a free lunch. But today's lunch was better cause we leave to the new Asian place to cross the street to celebrate the reports is almost finished. This place is pretty sweet, we had lettuce wraps which i'ld has never had before. They are pretty much a bunch of lettuce leaves and good things that you scoop the lettuce in them with a taco shell sort of thing. I also had Teriyaki beef dish which was very cool. Excellent way to get amped for the weekend!  Back to long ago, I think my family is actually Turkey on Thanksgiving. But we frequently asked hosting each year with one of my uncle from Connecticut. Have the Turkey the day of the Turkey has become an issue when we children in high school and had to participate in the thanksgiving day football game (most of us was in a group, but I wahoo football and band). So after the game, not taking packed and forced 3:0. 3 hours of driving is not exactly in the mood to help you build and devour massive dinner. That is why the plan was formed have Turkey on Black Friday! Gradually, the wide noodles have become staple of Thursday's meal and had its best showing after 6 or 7 games in overtime, during which many of the parents in the stands to fear Turkey get burned. We had such an issue and completely enjoyed cold morning as the team went on to win. This is the story of a traditional Lasagna for Thanksgiving. Yesterday was great. We had the chicken pot pie, along with amazing ruebens and black bean cakes and Cheesy Grits. Unfortunately, that lunch didn't get it is proper recognition because it was sandwiched between the famous Dave from Monday and all star lineup today. Today at noon Wednesday is definitely value. Flounder and Rosemary Chicken for meat (beef Burgundy was also an option but too many mushrooms). Noodle, with in the Formof egg noodles or pasta. And vegetables are carrots and spinach cream. Also, corn ?'???? souup which cap things off is beautiful. I will try to get a few more posts in for the weekend, when the national violent warning system will bring in some overtime.  So last night was the company's holiday party and it was amazing. Among the choices of food, steak, Turkey, several pasta and rice, sushi, was mini burgers, pigs in a blanket and many other things, I also do not remember. The best thing that I had already was definitely shrimp wrapped in bacon, which was awesome.
