 "Claude Gueux" certainly makes it easier to identify with the main character, a victim of unfortunate circumstances it finds itself having to steal in order to provide food and shelter for his family. It is difficult not to feel sorry for him, in his attempt to feed his family he is thrown into a prison where the warden Torture him repeatedly, in all senses. So, one has to feel a sense of Justice when Gueux eventually kills the warden and the great injustice when Gueux is sentenced to death and executed for the murder.  I find this very interesting, Hugo seems to follow the same pattern in many social protest novel, after seeing the mishap on the pile until the event starts to look ridiculous impractical. In the course of several parties and four years, he said that his wife is jailed Gueux became a prostitute, he said that his child has disappeared, only to lose him, and makes the friend is sentenced to death for killing a man who had been tormenting him for so long. The story seems to require some amount of suspension of disbelief so ready to accept that anyone could be as good as Claude Joe, and fine people can be divided easily, completely injustice in society. Short story stop from becoming too much of an issue, but I don't know that this story could ever have adapted in shape longer, like a novel, without making the story more believable.  The authors comments are sometimes very pointed, too. Again and again he makes sarcastic remarks about the evils of the society. Become altar, prison and pillory speaking units in converted monastery, he says "this progress and is called the" At the end of the story, the author's voice changes from narrator lecturer as he repeatedly in the current status quo issues of society. I can't imagine why, other than that he had a problem, expressing all the things he wanted to say through the narrative. To me, it seems very much to be Hugo trying to find his voice-he knows exactly what he wants to say, but still is to develop in the right way to express it.  All in all, however, read it is fun. As the reader will certainly by the end of the story, Gueux executed would be somewhat predictable, despite the fact that Hugo had crafted the plot quite creative. It is easy to sympathize with the beggar, as a man who was trying only to what he had to care for his family. Hugo clearly has a well-developed understanding of what it is to be a good man to be, and what it is like a bad. He realizes that most people would agree that if a man must steal in order to provide for his family, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that lead need him to steal.  
