 "Claude Gueux" certainly makes it easy to identify with the main character, a victim of unfortunate circumstances ho finds itself having to steal to eat and accommodation provided for his family. It is difficult not to feel sorry for him, just as in his attempt to feed his family which he repeatedly in a prison where the warden, tortures him in all possible ways is thrown. So, has a sense of Justice when Gueux eventually kills the warden, and great injustice if Gueux is eventually executed for the murder and sentenced to death.  I find it interesting that Hugo followed the same pattern seems to be seen in many novels of social protest, accumulate on the incident after incident until the start of events seemed ridiculously unrealistic. Gueux is locked up in the course of just a few pages and four years, said that his wife told a prostitute that his child is only disappeared, makes a friend to lose him and is sentenced to death for the killing of the man of who has been tormenting him for so long had become is. History seems to require some amount of willing suspension of disbelief to accept that someone can be as good as Claude gueux, and so good people can be broken down so easily and completely injustice in society. The brevity of the history stops this to become too many question, but I don't know that this story could never have been adapted in a longer format, such as a novel, without more credible history.  The authors comments are sometimes very sharp, also. Over and over, it makes sarcastic comments about the evils of society. Speaking of an Abbey turned into a prison, and specifically the jaw of become an altar, he says "this is called progress." He will keep changing status quo of current social problems tutor from the voice narrator for the author at the end of the story as the point. I can't imagine why, but the author was having problems expressing all the things you wanted to say through the narrative. It seems to me, is very much trying to find its voice-Hugo knows that exactly what he wants to say, but it is still filled with the correct way to express it.  All in all, however, it was quite fun to read. Despite being predictable to a certain extent, as the reader can be sure to put Joe to death at the end of the story, the plot was developed completely creative., Hugo It's easy to empathize with gu, as someone who is only trying to do what he had to care for his family. Hugo clearly has a well-developed notion of what is to be a good human being, and what is being bad. He realizes that most people would agree that if a man shall steal, his family care, the problem not with the man but the circumstances which it is need, to steal.  
