 "Claude Joe" certainly makes it easy to identify with the main character, a victim of unfortunate circumstances Ho finds himself needing to steal in order to provide food and shelter for his family. It's hard not to feel for him, and he tried to feed his family, he was put in prison, where guards tortured him multiple times, in every possible way and regret. So, one must be a sense of Justice as Gueux finally kills the guards and great injustice if Gueux sentenced to death and executed for murder.  I find it interesting that Hugh seems to follow the same pattern seen in many social protest novels, stack on accident after accident until the events begin to seem ridiculously unrealistic. Over a few pages, to four years, Jao, and said that his wife had become a prostitute, he said that his son had disappeared, and makes a friend only to lose him, is sentenced to death for the murder of a man who had been tormenting him for a long time. The story seems to require some amount of willing suspension of disbelief to accept that anyone would be so good as Claude Gueux, and that as good a person might be broken down so easily and completely by the injustices in society. The shortness of the story does not prevent this becoming too much of a problem, but I don't know that this story could ever have been adapted in a longer format, as a novel, without that the story more believable.  The authors notes are sometimes also very sharp. Repeatedly, he makes a sarcastic comment about society's ills. Speaking of Abbey, converted in prison and specifically the altar become pillory, he says, "that's called progress." At the end of the story the author changes the voice of Narrator to teacher as he repeatedly problems in the current status quo of the society points out. I can't imagine why, other than that the author had problems expressing all of the things he wanted to say by the story. For me, Hugo much seems to be trying to find his voice - he knows exactly what you mean, but still is to develop the correct way to express it.  All in all, though, it's rather fun to read. Although the somewhat predictable, if the reader could be certain that Gueux would be brought to death by the end of the story, the plot that Hugo was manufactured quite creative. It is easy to empathize with Gueux, as a man who was just trying to do what had to take care of his family. Hugo has clearly developed sense of what it is to be a good person, what is it to be bad. It is aware that the majority of people would agree that if a man must steal to take care of his family, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that lead to having to steal.  
