 "Claude Gueux" certainly makes it easy to identify with the main character, a victim of unfortunate circumstances ho considers itself need to steal to provide food and shelter for his family. Difficult not to feel sympathy for him, such as his attempt to feed the family, he was thrown into prison was where the warden of it over and over again, in every possible way. So man must feel when finally kills the warden and the great injustice of Justice Gueux at the Gueux is sentenced to death, and eventually executed for murder.  I find it interesting that in many social protest novel Hugo saw the same pattern to follow when starting to seem ridiculously unrealistic events after the crash on crash deposit. Just a few pages and a four-year course, Gueux was imprisoned, told his wife had become a prostitute, told his children have disappeared, let a friend just lost his, and sentenced to have killed people death has tormented him for so long. Story is willing to stop who accept compromised so easily might be good, and good people as Claude Goo thing to require some amount of illegal in society completely distrust and you are kind. This stops the story was too big of a problem, but I don't know that this story had been adapted into ever longer format, such as a novel, without making the story more believable.  Also pointed out the very author commentary times. He repeatedly makes sarcastic comments about the evils of society. Speaking of converted monastery prison, especially the altar splint, he says, "this is called progress." At the end of the story, the author's voice becomes the Narrator lecturer, he has repeatedly pointed out that problems in the social status quo. I can't imagine why, other than that the author was having trouble expressing what he want to say through the story. For me, Hugo seems very trying to find his voice-he knows exactly what he wants to say but still fleshing out the right way to express it.  All in all, though, this place was fun to read. Despite the somewhat predictable, as the reader can be sure that GU was put to death by the end of the story, plot, created by Hugo was very creative. It's easy to empathize with Gueux, as a man who only tried to do what he had to provide for his family. It is clear that Hugo very sophisticated idea has to be a good human being, he has to be a bad one. He understands that most people agree that if a person had to steal his family to worry about, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that lead to him to burgle.  
