 "Claude Gueux" certainly identify with the main character to be a victim of unfortunate makes it easy for themselves, for their family, provide food and shelter to have conditions for piracy. It is hard, not to bad for him, in his attempt to feed his family, he is thrown into a prison where the warden repeatedly tortures him in every possible way, feel like. Therefore, when you Goo and run kill murder detective and a great injustice eventually eventually Goo 1 sentenced to death is you must feel the sense of justice. I find it interesting that Hugo seems to follow the same model seen in many novels of social protest, pile accident accident until the events started to appear ridiculously unrealistic. In the course of few pages and four years, Gueux is imprisoned, he said that his wife has become a prostitute, said her son has disappeared, makes a friend he lost and he is sentenced to death for killing the man who had been tormenting time therefore. The story seems to require a certain amount of power ready to accept any suspension, one can be as good as Claude Gueux, that so good a person can so easily be decomposed completely, by injustice in society. Wheezing stops, it becomes too much of a story, but I don't know the problem, that this story could have been prepared in a format more than the novel, sometimes without the story more believable.  The authors comments are sometimes very pointed, too. Repeatedly, makes sarcastic comments on the evils of society. Talking about the Abbey converted into a prison, specifically the altar become pylori, says "this is called progress". At the end of the story, voice of Narrator, lecturer, as he repeatedly changes the author stresses problems in society of the current status quo. I can't imagine why, other than the author of all things that he wanted to express through the narrative says. Hugo seems to me very much, to try to find his voice - he knows exactly what he wants to say, but is still the right way to express it design.  All in All, even though it was rather entertaining to read. Despite being somewhat predictable, as the reader could be sure that beggars could be put to death at the end of the story, the plot designed Hugo was very creative. It's easy for a man who only that he did to his family was trying to care for as Gueux empathize with. Hugo clearly has a well-developed understanding of what it is to be a good man to be, and what it is like a bad. He realizes that most people would agree that if a man must steal in order to provide for his family, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that lead need him to steal.  
