 "Claude Gueux" it is certainly easy to identify with the main character, victim of an unfortunate circumstances ho finds himself needing to fly to provide food and shelter for his family. It's not hard to feel pity for him, and his attempts to feed his family, he is thrown into prison, where prison repeatedly puts it in all possible ways. Therefore, one must sense of Justice when Joe finally warden, great injustice when Joe is sentenced to death and executed in the end.  I find it interesting that Hugh seems to follow the same pattern seen in many social protest novels, stack on accident after accident until the events begin to seem ridiculously unrealistic. Within just a few pages and four years in jail, said GU, his wife became prostitute, said that his child was gone, makes a friend, only to lose him and sentenced to death for killing a man who torment him for so long. The story seems to require some amount of willing suspension of disbelief to accept that anyone would be so good as Claude Gueux, and that as good a person might be broken down so easily and completely by the injustices in society. The shortness of the history prevents that always too much a problem, but I do not know this, that this story ever could have adapted in a longer format, such as a novel, without making the story more believable.  The remarks of the authors are sometimes very sharp, also. Oftentimes, the sarcastic comment about the evils of society. An Abbey in a prison, and specifically a pillory are speaking altar converts, he says, "This means progress." At the end of the story the author changes the voice of Narrator to teacher as he repeatedly problems in the current status quo of the society points out. I can't imagine why, other than that the author had problems expressing all of the things he wanted to say by the story. Try to find his voice Hugo very to me-he just what is the right way for him to say, still expressing it materialized. All in all though, it was pretty fun to read. Although the somewhat predictable, if the reader could be certain that Gueux would be brought to death by the end of the story, the plot that Hugo was manufactured quite creative. It of easy to empathize with Gueux, as a man who only tried to do what he had to take care of his family. Hugo has clearly developed a concept of what it is to be a good person, and what is a bad one. He realizes that most people had a man to steal his family to take care of that problem, but the circumstances that made him man to steal is not required to agree with that.  
