 "Claude Gueux" certainly makes it easy to identify with the main character, a victim of unfortunate circumstances ho finds itself having to steal to eat and accommodation provided for his family. It is difficult not to feel sorry for him, just as in his attempt to feed his family which he repeatedly in a prison where the warden, tortures him in all possible ways is thrown. So, has a sense of Justice when Gueux eventually kills the warden, and great injustice if Gueux is eventually executed for the murder and sentenced to death.  I think it is interesting that Ugo seems to follow the same pattern in many novels of social protest, piling on the misery after the accident until the events begin to seem ridiculously unrealistic. Gueux is in the course of just a few pages, and told that his wife four years, imprisoned, a prostitute, told that his child is gone, only to lose him makes a friend to, and is sentenced to the death penalty for killing the man who had become his tormenting him for so long. It seems that the story required some suspension of disbelief to accept the amount that someone is willing to could be as good as Claude Gueux, and so well organized, so that a person can easily and completely injustice in the society. Short stories stopped this becoming too many questions, but I do not know this story has been adapted into a format for a long time, like a novel, but without making the story more credible. Authors are also very sharp comment on time. Again and again, he makes the comments sarcastic about the injustices of society. Speaking of an Abbey converted into a prison and specifically pillory altar become, he says that "this is called progress." He frequently points out the problems in current society's status quo as at the end of the story, the writer's voice of Narrator lecturer. I can't imagine why, except that the author had trouble expressing all the things I wanted to say through the narrative. Hugo seems to me very much trying to find his voice-he knows exactly what he wants to say, but is still on the proper way to print interpretation.  All in all was however quite fun to read it. Despite being a little predictable, as the reader may be true Gueux put to death by the end of the story, the plot artisan Hugo was quite creative. Easy to identify with, such as Gueux was only trying to do what he had to care for his family. Hugo is clearly the concept of a mature, it is a very nice person, and it is a bad one. He was aware that most people would agree that if a person must be stealing to care for his family, the problem is not with the man, but the situation, cause he needs to steal anymore.
