 "Claude Gueux" certainly makes it easy, a victim of unfortunate circumstances identify with the main character, lane finds itself need to steal, provide to food and shelter for his family. Where he is a warden hard to like him and trying to feed him thrown torture prison in every way he repeatable family didn't feel sympathy for him. Thus, one must feel a sense of Justice when GU eventually kills the warden and a great injustice when GU have been sentenced to death and eventually executed for murder.  Find it me interesting Hugo seems to follow the same pattern seen in many novels of social protest, piling on mishap after mishap until the events seem ridiculously unrealistic. Just a few pages, and imprisoned during four years, told his wife, Gueux her hair has disappeared, only to lose it to a friend, the man who for so long crappy tormenting was sentenced to death for the murder of a prostitute, and. History seems to require some amount of willing suspension of disbelief to accept that someone could be as good as Claude Gueux, and good a person could be broken so easily and the injustices fully in society. The shortness of the story does not prevent this becoming too much of a problem, but I don't know that this story could ever have been adapted in a longer format, as a novel, without that the story more believable.  Comments editors very often, they pointed. He makes repeatedly, sarcastic comments about the evils of the society. Talking about the abbey converted to prison, and particularly the altar become pillory, says that "this is called progress." At the end of the story the author's voice changes of Narrator lecturer as he repeatedly pointed to the problems of society, the current status quo. I can not imagine why, except that the author had problems expressing all the things he wanted to say by the story. To me, Hugo would seem to be to find his voice--he knows is what he's trying to say, but continue to enrich the correct way to express. Overall, however, it is rather fun to read. Although fairly predictable, the reader can be sure to be put to death at the end of the story Gueux, Hugo crafted plot was pretty creative. It's easy to empathize with Gueux, as a man who only tried to do what he had to provide for his family. Hugo clearly has developed the concept of what it's supposed to be a good person, and that it will be bad. He realizes that most people would agree that if a man must steal to take care of his family, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that led him to need to fly.  
