 "Claude Gueux" certainly is easy to identify with the main character, a victim of unfortunate circumstances o finds himself having to steal to provide food and shelter for his family. It's hard not to, as his attempt to feed it to the ranks of his family, he is thrown into prison, where the warden repeatedly, tortures him by all possible means. So, to feel a sense of a justice sentenced to death when the Gueux and eventually executed for killing the warden, and colossal injustice Gueux eventually kills.  I found interesting this looks do the same Hugo pattern see social protest novels, piling on the fault after fault until the events begin to seem ridiculously realistic. During a few pages, and four years later, he was imprisoned, he said that the Gueux wife became prostitute, said that his son had disappeared, only to lose it to connect, discuss the death of the man who had been tormenting him for so long. The story admit that anyone as good as Claude Gueux, and so a person can so easily broken down and that the order to completely distrust in society require injustice by suspension of some amount to. The brevity of the story stops this becomes a problem too, but I don't know that this story could never have adapted to a longer format, such as a novel, without making the story more believable.  Very pointed, told the author at times too. He makes repeatedly, sarcastic comments about the evils of the society. Converted to a prison, and sports floor pillory monastery, he said: "it's called progress". At the end of the story, the voice of the author changes of Narrator teacher as repeatedly pointed out problems in the current situation of the company. Why I, as the author was not successful to express all of the things that I wanted to say through the narrative. Lee, Hugo looks very trying to find his voice-he knows exactly what he wants to say, but still fleshing out the correct way to express it.  In total, but it was quite fun to read. Although he might be somewhat predictable, as the reader sure that Gueux at the end of the story, would be executed, the property was the Hugo crafted, very creative. It's easy to empathize with Joe, as a man was only trying to do what had to care for his family. Hugo has clear concept of what a well developed, this year it's good to be a bad thing. He realizes that most people would agree that if a man shall steal to care for his family, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that lead him to steal.  
