 Claude Goo, identification of the main character easily, of unfortunate victims ho found his own situation need to steal to provide food and shelter for his family. It is difficult to not feel pity for him, as in his attempt to feed his family is thrown into a prison where the goalkeeper who him several times, in all possible ways. Therefore, it has a sense of justice when beggars finally destroyed the keeper and the great injustice when beggars was sentenced to death and eventually executed for the murder.  I find it interesting that Hugh seems to follow the same pattern in many social protest novels, are seen urging mishap after the accident, until the events begin to appear ridiculously unrealistic. Just a few pages and he is being sentenced to death killing said the man had been plaguing the Goo is imprisoned in the course of 4 years, prostitutes, and his wife is losing his only friend lost his child, he long. History seems to require a certain amount of suspension to accept that someone could be as good as Claude Gueux and broken that how well a person could down so easily and completely by the injustices in society willing disbelief. Shortness of breath is becoming history stops too much of a problem, but I don't know that this story could ever have been adapted in a format more like a novel, without making the story more believable.  Authors ' comments at times very pointed out also. He repeatedly, and makes ironic comments social scourges. Speaking of an Abbey turned into a prison, and specifically the jaw of become an altar, he says "this is called progress." At the end of the story, the author of the voice changes from the moderator repeatedly reminds the problems in current society lecturer as the status quo. And now I can't imagine why, other than the author to express things, says he want to describe all the problems. For me, Hugo seems to much to try to find his voice - he knows exactly what he wants to say, but still is realization of the right way to express it.  All in all, however, it was quite fun to read. Readers at the end of the story to the to the death to the Goo can identify some degree was created pretty Hugo crafted plot despite predictions. It is easy to sympathize with Gueux, as a person only wants to do what he had to care for his family. Hugo has clearly a well developed idea of what it is to be a good person and what it is to be poor. He realizes that most people would agree that if a man shall steal in order to care for his family, the problem is not with the man, but the circumstances that led him to want to steal.  
