	It helps taking a psychology class when teaching my dog to roll over. The last chapters read illustrate the principles of animal learning and conditioning. Although most of the examples from the book are from tests with mice, rats, monkeys, etc, they can be extended to work for dogs too. There are a few different teaching mechanisms to consider before going about teaching my old dog a new trick.
	My dog has to be conditioned or must learn the behavior through observation. But, since there are no other dogs to observe in my household, there is nothing for my dog to observe and learn from, therefore, he must rather learn through conditioning. In one way or another, I must condition him so that when the command is given to roll over, he rolls over. There are two types of conditioning, classical conditioning and operant conditioning. Classical conditioning is the first where two or more stimuli are linked to an event. This can both link related things, and entirely different things. For example, a study was done where the researchers took 8 different cola brands, 2 well-known, 2 moderately known, and 4 unknown brands and set pictures of the “conditioned response” brand next to scenic pictures of water and the other brands next to neutral pictures. This was done for each of the colas with different groups of people and with a control that was all neutral pictures. In the end, the experiment did not find much of a difference between each of the groups opinions towards a brand versus the control group, except for where the participants were aware of the stimuli they were receiving (the pictures of water next to the specific brand). Those that were aware of the unconditioned stimulus actually had more favorable attitudes towards the cola brand they were being conditioned to like (Shimp, Stuart & Engle, 1991). This shows that 2 unrelated things (cola and pictures of water) can be put together to stimulate a specific response from a subject. Despite this having a favorable affect even on humans, the type of conditioning I am going to use to train my dog is called operant conditioning. This is a type of learning that strengthens actions if they are followed by a reward or “diminishes actions if followed by a punisher” (Meyers, 2010). This is more useful to teach a dog a trick, as in this method, the dogs specific actions are being rewarded rather than simultaneous stimuli being associated with one another. By rewarding the dog’s behavior, the “law of effect” states that the behavior rewarded is more likely to occur.
	In order to teach my dog to roll over, I am going to use positive reinforcement. Positive reinforcement is adding a desirable stimulus to encourage the dogs behavior to continue. In this case I will give the dog a treat when he completes a full roll-over. This differs from negative reinforcement which is when a bad stimulus is removed in order to reinforce behaviors. 
