 I will join the team in broadcasting, LLC would like to express my interest in.   I think that I would be an excellent addition to your engineering operations.   I am a certified professional engineer and certified radio broadcast engineers society networking technologist.   I have worked in the field of radio Engineering since the fall of 2000, and plan on continuing my development as a broadcast engineer include television, postgraduate studies, and finally the RF systems design. Currently, Prometheus, I technical services program area working to expand.   It was my full time mission to provide the best quality information for community radio stations in the country, the Low Power FM (LPFM DOWNLOADS) stations for the most part.   Many stations had very limited funds, I will give this free consultation.   Stations with large budgets, I plan a full station with the tools to develop budgets and building programs.   I then manage the construction process-either with a team of technicians and volunteers, or the entire facility to build it myself. Based on the feedback I received from many workshops, trainings I have given, I consider myself to be an excellent teacher.   Most of them were of a technical nature, but some are involved in community media and participatory media overview.   I also work with volunteers and staff at community stations across the country to ensure that they understand the technical aspects of their station, it can operate easily and can solving fundamental problems and problems that come with a new system.   This usually happens after the construction of a new station, but there are opportunities to some train stations in depth about the best practices for equipment they already possess. I have excellent knowledge in the technical workings of modern radio station, from the microphone to the antenna.   Many of my skill has arisen from self-guided study and hands-on tinkering, in addition to professional experience.   I spend much of my free time experimenting, I design and electronic prototypes.   I have built large analog and digital systems in laboratory settings, and the implementation of VLSI (very large system integration) IC design and computer-aided procedures. I have extensive knowledge of many computer systems platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2 and MP3.   I and several programming and scripting languages, such as c, JAVA, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS technology proficiency. I've built and managed websites.  My expertise extends to 802.3 wired Ethernet networks and wireless 802.11 a/b/g as well as networks. I visit your facility and there aren't even if a chance to meet immediate opportunities employees would appreciate.   Hope that there may be some opportunities for professional collaboration in the future. Thank you for your time and consideration. I do about my role in Coordinator class said in every think. Other terms often used for this class or intellectual class management class.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit the facility and meet the team even if no immediate opportunity available.   Hope that there may be some opportunities for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
