 I want to express my interest to join the team in scientific broadcasting, LLC.   I am confident that I will have on your project operate excellent addition. I am a certified professional Radio engineer and Certified Networking technologist with the society of broadcast engineers.   I radio engineering field since the fall of 2000, and television, including graduate studies, and finally the RF system design engineer to a broadcast as your development plans on continuing. In Prometheus, I am currently working to extend the area programme for technical services.   It has been my full-time mission to provide the best quality information for Community Radio around the country stations, stations of low power FM (LPFM) for the most part.   Many stations were very limited funds, and these I would provide a free consultation.   For stations with larger budgets I work plan and equipment with them a station to develop budget construction schedule.   I then manage the construction process - either with a team of technicians and volunteers, or build the entire installation myself. Based on workshops and training I have received a lot of feedback I have given, I think you are an excellent teacher. Most of these are technical in nature, but some have an overview of Community media and participatory media involved.   I also understand that volunteers and staff with technical aspects of their station, they easily can work, and basic problems and issues that come up with any new system you can troubleshoot to insure community stations around the country.   This usually occurs after is the construction of a new station, but there are some ways stations incoming on best practices for equipment to train, who already own them. I have an excellent knowledge about the technical functioning of a modern radio station, of the microphone to the antenna.   A large part of my skills is self-guided studies and DIY practice, in addition to the experience.   I spent a lot of my free time experimenting, designing and prototyping electronics.   I've built large analogue and digital systems in the laboratory as well as make the design of VLSI (very large-scale systems integration) IC with computer-assisted programs. I have extensive knowledge about many computer systems platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX.   I have worked with the diffusion of audio technologies such as MP3, MP2 and Ogg Vorbis, RealAudio.   I did some programming and scripting languages C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS, such as skilled. I built and managed Web sites.  My expertise extends to wired Ethernet 802.3 network and wireless 802.11a/b/g networking as well. I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet staff even if there is no immediate opportunity available.   I hope that there may be some opportunities for professional collaboration in the future. Thank you for your time and attention. I am fairly certain about what my role is often called co-ordinator class was thinking.   Other terms often used for this class will be the class or intellectual class.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet with workers, even when there is no immediate opportunity available.   Let us hope that there might be any chance of professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
