 I would like to express my interest in joining the team of diffusion of Sciences, LLC.   I think I would be an excellent addition to your engineering activities.   I am a certified professional engineer and certified with the company radio network of the Anna Zawadzk?ch of this broadcast engineers.   I've worked in the Radio field Engineering since the autumn of 2000, and plan on continuing my development as a broadcast television engineer abuse, graduate studies, and eventually RF systems design. Currently, Prometheus, I was in the area of technical services program to expand work.   It is a full-time (elasticity) national low-power FM station, community radio stations provide the highest quality information for the most part my mission. Many stations have very limited funds, and to those, I will provide a free consultation. For stations with a larger budgets I work with them a full station plan, equipment, budget and planning of the construction to develop.   I can manage the process of construction - either with a team of technicians and volunteers, or construct the installation complete myself. Response I have given many workshops and training I have received, I based on is an excellent teacher idea.   Most of them were of a technical nature, but some participated in an overview of community media and participatory media.   I also work with volunteers and staff on stations across the country to ensure that the community's understanding of the technical aspects of their stations, you can control it easily and you can solve the basic problems and questions that come up with any new system.   Is usually this occurs after the new station construction of generic, they had a chance to train stations for more information on best practices for their own devices some already. I have a microphone for modern radio station, antenna performance is a very good knowledge of the technology.   Much of my skill was of self-directed learning and hands-on tinkering, in addition to work experience.   I spent much of my electronics of experimentation, design and prototyping of free time.   I've built large analog and digital systems in laboratory conditions, as well as conduct VLSI (very large system integration) IC design using the software. I have extensive knowledge of work of many computer systems platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2 and MP3.   I am experienced with multiple programming and scripting languages, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   Has a son, managing Web sites.  My skill wired Ethernet 802.3 continued until and wireless networking from the network as well. I appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet the staff, even if there is not an immediate possibility is available.   Hopefully, that may be some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future. Thank you for your time and your consideration. I've been thinking quite a bit about my role in what is often called the Coordinator class.   Use of this class will management or intellectual classes often and other terms. I appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet the staff, even if there is not an immediate possibility is available.   Hopefully, that may be some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
