 I would like to express my interest in joining the team at the dissemination of science, LLC.   I believe and will be adding excellent engineering operations. I'm an engineer and certified professional radio technician certificate with the society of engineers broadcast networks.   I have worked in the field of Radio engineering since the autumn of 2000 and plans to continue my development engineer of transmission include television, graduate studies, and finally the design of RF systems. Currently, Prometheus, I'm trying to expand areas of technical services program. This is my mission to provide the best quality information to all time low power FM community radio stations throughout the country (LPFM) stations in the highest degree. Will provide these and many stations on the very limited funding my free consultation. For stations with larger budgets, you can work with them to develop a full station, equipment and budget.   I build process-with a team of technicians and volunteers, either manage or entire facility itself. Based on the feedback I have received from the many workshops and trainings which I have given, I consider myself as an excellent teacher.   Most of these are technical in nature, the overview of participatory media and some community media is involved. I also work with volunteers and staff at community stations across the country to ensure that they understand the technical aspects of their station, it can operate easily and can solving fundamental problems and problems that come with a new system.   This usually occurs after the construction of a new station, but there have been opportunities to train some stations background on best practices for computers that already have. I have excellent knowledge about the technical operation of a modern radio station, from the micro to the antenna.   Many of my skill has arisen from self-guided study and hands-on tinkering, in addition to professional experience.   I spent a lot of my spare time to do experiments, design, prototype and electronic products. I have built large analog and digital systems in laboratory settings, and VLSI (very large system integration) IC design with computer-aided programs running. I have extensive knowledge of many computer systems and platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD OSX.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2, and MP3.   I have several programming and scripting languages such as c, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS as well as efficient.   I have built and manage sites.  Stretching my experience to wired Ethernet 802.3 Vista wireless networks, and networks, as well. I would get the opportunity to visit your facility and meet with staff, even if there is no possibility of immediate.   Hopefully there may be some opportunities for professional cooperation in the future. Thank you for your time and consideration. I've been thinking a bit about my role in what is called the Coordinator class.   Other terms commonly used for this class will be the intellectual class or class management.   I would get the opportunity to visit your facility and meet with staff, even if there is no possibility of immediate.   Hopefully there may be some opportunities for professional cooperation in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
