 Broadcasting interest in science in the LLC, to join the team I want to express is. And I think I would be an excellent addition to your engineering processes.   I am a Radio Engineer professional certificate and certificate of technical network Broadcast engineers society.   I worked in the field of Radio engineering since autumn 2000 and plan on my training as broadcast engineer continues to include television, graduate studies, and finally the RF system design. Currently, in Prometheus, I am working to expand the program of technical services area.   This is for the most part, around the country at power FM (LPFM) stations and community radio stations to provide the best quality information to my full-time mission.   Many stations had very limited funds, and I will provide free consultations.   For stations with larger budgets, working with them to develop a comprehensive plan of station, construction scheduling and budget team.   You can manage the construction process-with a team of volunteer technicians, or build the entire facility. Based on the feedback I have received from the many workshops and trainings which I have given, I consider myself as an excellent teacher.   Most of these were technical in nature, but some included an overview of the media in society and participation.   I work with volunteers and stations around can staff at community to assure the country that they can understand the technical aspects of their station, easy to operate it and resolve basic problems and questions that come with any new system.   A new station building usually comes after, but there is something they already own equipment to train stations for best practices on profound opportunities. I have excellent knowledge about the technical functioning of a modern radio station, from the microphone to the antenna.   Much of my ability arises from studying self-guided and practical alterations, as well as professional experience.   I spend most of my free time experimenting, designing and prototyping electronics.   I have built large analog and digital systems in laboratory settings, and VLSI (very large system integration) IC design with computer-aided programs running. I have extensive knowledge of many computer systems platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2 and MP3.   I am qualified with multiple programming and scripting languages, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   I built my expertise and managed websites interested in networking wired Ethernet 802.3 networking. and wireless 802.11 a/b/g to. I appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet the staff, even if there is not an immediate possibility is available.   Hopefully there may be some opportunities for professional cooperation in the future. Thank you for your time and consideration. I've been thinking quite a bit about my role in what is often called the Coordinator class.   Other terms used frequently for this category would be category or in classroom management.   I appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet the staff, even if there is not an immediate possibility is available.   Hopefully there may be some opportunities for professional cooperation in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
