 I would like to express my desire to join the group in "broadcast of science", a limited liability company.   I think I would be an excellent addition to your engineering activities.   I am certified and certified network professional radio engineers society of broadcast engineers and technicians. I've worked in the Radio field Engineering since the autumn of 2000, and plan on continuing my development as a broadcast television engineer abuse, graduate studies, and eventually RF systems design. Now, bpromtaos, I'm working to expand my technical services program.   It was my full-time mission best quality to community radio stations around the country, low power FM (LPFM) stations in most cases information.   Many stations had very limited financial resources, and that this would provide a free consultation.   For stations with a larger budgets I work with them a full station plan, equipment, budget and planning of the construction to develop.   Construction process-the build the team of technicians and volunteers in management or your entire facility. Based on the feedback I have received from the many workshops and training courses I have mentioned, and I consider myself an excellent teacher.   Most of them are technical in nature, but some have an overview of participation in community media and participation in the media. Also volunteers and staff to understand the technical aspects of the station, and it is easier to work and issues you can troubleshoot basic problems and any new system will work to ensure community stations around the country. Usually this occurs after a new station building, but there were some opportunities to train stations in depth about best practices for equipment they own already. I have technical knowledge antenna excellent from Mike contemporary radio stations have a mechanism. A big part of my skills are Custom study and hands-on tinkering with, in addition to professional practice.   I spend much of my free time experimenting, designing and prototyping of electronics.   I have large analog and digital systems in laboratory settings, as well as construction of VLSI (very large systems integration) with computer aided IC design programs. I have several computer platforms including Windows, Linux, BSD systems, and extensive working knowledge of OSX.   I have worked with technologies of audio such as MP3, MP2, Ogg Vorbis, and RealAudio streaming.   I am experienced with multiple programming and scripting languages, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   I've built and maintains websites.  My expertise extends to wired Ethernet 802.3 networks, wireless 802.11a/b/g and collaboration. Appreciated the opportunity to visit your facility and staff is not, even if immediate opportunities available. It can hopefully some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future. Thank you for your time and consideration, thank you very much. I've been thinking quite a bit about my role in what is often called the Coordinator class.   This class is typically used in other articles of the intellectual property rights or management classes. Appreciated the opportunity to visit your facility and staff is not, even if immediate opportunities available. It can hopefully some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
