 I would like to express my interest in the team for the broadcast of science entry, LLC.   I believe that I would be an excellent complement to your engineering operations.   I'm a certified wireless engineer, engineer-broadcast engineering social networking King certified. Radio engineering field of fall since 2000, television, graduate studies, eventually RF system design, including the broadcast has a job to me as an engineer developing continuity plan. In Prometheus, I am currently working to extend the area programme for technical services.   It is my full-time mission to the best quality information to Community Radio stations throughout the country, Low Power FM (LPFM) stations for the most part.   Many stations had very limited resources, and I would offer this free advice.   With a larger budget, and they cooperate in establishing a station-wide plan, and construction of the equipment budget. I then the construction process - either with a team of technicians and voluntary, to manage or to construct the entire system itself. Based on the feedback that I have received from many seminars and trainings that I gave, I consider myself to be an excellent teacher.   Most of these are technical in nature, but some have an overview of Community media and participatory media involved.   You can also work with volunteers and community stations across the country to ensure that they understand the technical aspects of their station you can easily enable it, resolve basic problems, problems that come up with a new system.   Usually this happens after construction of a new station, but some stations are already in-depth best practice opportunities of the equipment they already own. I have an excellent knowledge about the technical functioning of a modern radio station, of the microphone to the antenna.   Much of his skills, self study and hands-on professional experience in addition to arose from the reshuffle.   I spend most of my free time experiment, design and prototyping electronics.   I built large analog and digital systems in the parameters of laboratory, so that made VLSI (very large systems integration) IC design assisted by computer programs. I have a working broad knowledge of many computer systems platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD and Mac.   I like RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2 and MP3 audio streaming technologies, worked with.   I am skilled with several programming languages and scripting, such as c, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   I have built and manage Web sites.  My experience extends to wired wireless 802.11a/b/g and Ethernet 802.3 network networks as well. I would appreciate the opportunity to visit the facility and meet the team even if no immediate opportunity available.   Let us hope that there might be any chance of professional collaboration in the future. Thank you for your time and attention. I've thought quite a bit about my role in what is often called the Coordinator class.   Other terms that are often used for this class would the intellectual class or management.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and learn the employees even if there is no immediate way.   Hopefully, opportunity for some professional collaboration for there future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
