 I would like to express my interest in joining the team at science publishing, LLC.   I believe that I would be an excellent addition to your technical operation.   I am a certified professional Radio engineer and Certified Networking technologist with the society of broadcast engineers.   I worked in radio engineering since autumn 2000, and continue developing my program as broadcast to include television, graduate studies, eventually RF systems design. Currently, I am working on Prometheus, expanding program "technical services".   I've had my full time providing better quality information to stations "community radio" around the country, low-power FM (LPFM) most often.   Many stations were very limited funds, they can provide free advice.   For stations with large budgets I work with them to develop a plan of station equipment, budget and construction schedule.   I then manage the construction process-either with a team of technicians and volunteers, or the entire facility to build it myself. Based on the comments I have received from many workshops and trainings that I have given, I consider myself an excellent teacher.   Most of these were technical in nature, but some were an overview of community media and participatory media.   They also work with staff and volunteers in the community around the country stations to ensure they understand the technical aspects of your station can use it easily and can solve basic problems and issues that arise with any new system.   This usually happens after the construction of a new station, but there are opportunities to some train stations in depth about the best practices for equipment they already possess. I have excellent knowledge about the technical development of modern radio stations from the microphone to the antenna.   Have a skill many of my self-guided learning, messing around with the hand, a professional experience arising from the addition. I spent a lot of my free time experimenting, designing and prototyping electronics.   I built a great analog and digital systems in laboratory conditions, as well as the complete VLSI (very large system integration) IC design with automated programs. I have extensive working knowledge of many of the computer systems, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX platforms.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2, and MP3.   I am qualified with several programming and scripting languages, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML, and CSS.   I've built and managed websites.  My expertise extends to 802.3 wired Ethernet networks and wireless 802.11 a/b/g as well as networks. I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet with staff, although it is not an immediate opportunity available.   Hope there's opportunity for cooperation in the future some commercial. Thank you for your time and consideration. I have been thinking a little too me a role in so-called often class Coordinator.   Other terms often used for this class is the intellectual class or the class management.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit their facilities and meet the staff even if there is no immediate opportunity.   I hope that there may be some opportunities for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
