 I want my interest in joining the broadcast team of Sciences, LLC.   I believe I have an excellent addition to the engineering operation.   I am a certified professional engineer and certified networking technologist with the society of broadcast engineers.   I worked in the radio field in the fall of 2000, and plan on broadcast television engineer my qualifications, graduate school and eventually design RF systems. Currently, I am working on the extension of the area of the Prometheus program of technical services.   She has been my full time mission to provide the best information of quality in Community Radio stations across the country, the stations of low power FM (LPFM) most of the time.   Many stations had very limited resources, and these would I offer free consultation.   Station and the big budget to develop a packed station plan, budget, equipment and construction schedule has work together. Then I have to manage the process of building a team of professionals and volunteers, or build an entire object itself. Based on the comments that I have received many workshops and training, that I gave, I consider myself as an excellent teacher.   Most of those technical in nature, but there was some involved in participatory media and community overview.   I also work with volunteers and staff at the stations community around the country to make sure they understand the technical aspects of their station can operate easily and can be eliminated, the major issues and questions that come with any new system.   It usually occurs after the construction of the new station, but has the opportunity to train some in-depth best practices for equipment, which the station already owns. I have excellent knowledge about the technical functioning of modern radio, microphone to the antenna.   A great deal of skill my originated from self-guided study and hands-on tinkering, plus professional experience.   Spend a lot of my free time experiment, design and prototyping electronic. I have large analog and digital systems in the laboratory built settings as well as performed VLSI (very large system integration) IC design with CAD programs. I have a broad knowledge of many computer systems, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX platforms.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies, such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2, MP3.   I trained with various programming languages and scripts, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   I have built and manage Web sites.  My wired Ethernet 802.3 networking and wireless experience extends to the 802.11 a/b/g networks as well. I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and meet with workers, even when there is no immediate opportunity available.   Hopefully, opportunity for some professional collaboration for there future. Thank you for your time and attention. I thought quite a bit about my role in what is often called the Coordinator class.   Other terms that are often used for this class would the intellectual class or management.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and learn the employees even if there is no immediate way.   It can hopefully some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
