 I want my interest in joining the team at broadcast-Sciences, LLC.   I think that it would be a great addition to the engineering operations.   I am a certified Radio engineer and I certified network technologist of the society of engineers of the show.   I have worked since autumn 2000 and plan to continue my development as a broadcast engineer, television, study and finally RF system development on the radio engineering of area. Currently, Prometheus, I work for the expansion of the maintenance program.   It was my task to deliver the best quality of community radio stations throughout the country, low-power FM stations (LPFM).   Many stations had very limited funds, and they would provide free consultation.   For stations with a larger budget, I work with them to develop a plan and schedule for the construction of the station, the equipment budget full.   Then the management process of construction with a team of technicians and volunteers, either-or the construction of the whole of the object itself. Based on the feedback I get, have, from the many workshops and trainings that I have given, I consider myself an excellent teacher.   Most of them was of a technical nature, but some have implicated an overview of community and participatory media.   I work also with the staff and volunteers at the community stations across the country to ensure that they understand the technical aspects of their station, it can operate easily and can solve the fundamental problems and issues that arise with the new system.   This usually happens after the construction of the new station, but was unable to prepare an in-depth on some of the stations best practices for hardware they already own. I have a very good knowledge of the technical operation of a modern radio over the microphone at the antenna.   A lot of my expertise, hands-on attention came to study the mountain, as well as professional experience.   I spend a lot of electronics experiments and modelling my leisure time.   I have built large systems of analog and digital TV in the lab, as well as perform VLSI IC's (very large system integration) with computer programs. I have extensive knowledge of the many computer systems including Windows, Linux, BSD, OSX platform. I have been streaming RealAudio Ogg Vorbis, MP2, MP3, audio technology. I am skilled with several programming languages, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   I built and managed Web sites.  My experience extends to the 802.3 wired Ethernet networks and wireless 802.11 a/b/g, the network also. I hope to have the opportunity to visit your facilities and meet staff, even though there is no direct opportunity. I hope there would be some chance of professional collaboration for the future. Thank you for your time. I thought a little about my role in what is often called the Coordinator class.   Other terms which would often be the spiritual or the management class for this class.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and learn the employees even if there is no immediate way.   It can hopefully some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
