 I want my interest in joining the broadcast team of Sciences, LLC.   I believe I would be an excellent addition to engineering.   I am a certified professional radio engineer and networking technology with the society of broadcast engineers certified.   I have worked in the field of "radio engineering" since the autumn of 2000, and plan on further developing my "broadcast" includes television engineer, graduate studies and, ultimately, RF systems design. Currently, Prometheus, I work to expand the area of Technical Services program.   It is my full-time mission to the best quality information to Community Radio stations throughout the country, Low Power FM (LPFM) stations for the most part.   Many stations have very limited funds, and for them I would provide free consultation.   With larger stations budgets, work with them to develop a full plan and budget, equipment and construction schedule.   I then manage the construction process-either with technical staff and volunteer team, or build an entire facility. I, I myself consider excellent teachers based on the feedback received from the training has given many workshops. Most of these are technical in nature, but some community media and participatory media include an overview.   I also ensure that they understand the technical aspects of their station, easy operation and basic issues and problems can be solved, take out any new system of community radio stations all over the country working with volunteers and staff. This usually occurs after the establishment of the new station, but there were opportunities to train some of the deep stations on best practices for equipment you already own. I have excellent knowledge in the art of modern radio station, from the microphone to the antenna.   Most of my skills arose from self-guided learning and hands-on tinkering, apart from professional experience.   I spend a lot of electronics experiments, designing, prototyping of my free time.   I performs as the construction of VLSI (very large scale integration) IC design assistance program in laboratory setting a large analog and digital systems. I have a vast knowledge of many computer systems platforms, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX.   I have worked with streaming audio technologies such as RealAudio, Ogg Vorbis, MP2, MP3.   I am languages such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS with multiple programming and scripting languages.   I set up and manage Web sites. My professional level extends to the 802.3 wired Ethernet networks and wireless launches and networking. I would appreciate the opportunity to visit their facilities and meet the staff even if there is no immediate opportunity.   We hope that there can be some opportunities for cooperation in the future. Thank you for your time and attention. It is not just about what my role often is called class adapter.   Other terms that are often used for this class would be the intellectual class, or management.   I hope to have the opportunity to visit your facilities and meet staff, even though there is no direct opportunity. In the hope that some future professional collaboration opportunities.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
