 I would like to express my interest in radio science, LLC has joined the team. I believe that I would be a great addition to your engineering operations.   I am a certified professional, certified engineer radio network broadcast technologist with the company of engineers.   I had in 2000, the field of radio engineering since the autumn and continuing my development plan as a broadcast engineer, including television, graduate student, and the final RF system design. Currently, working to enlarge the area of the Promethean technology services program. It was my mission to provide the best quality information full-time community radio stations across the country, the low power FM (LPFM) stations, for the most part.   Many stations had very limited resources, and these would I offer free consultation.   For stations with larger budgets, I work with them to develop a plan of the complete station, the capital budget and the construction schedule.   Then I manage construction. with a team of professionals and volunteers, or the construction of an annex full myself. Based on the feedback I got from the many workshops and training, I gave, I consider myself an excellent teacher.   Most of them were technical nature, but some have involved an overview of community and participatory media.   I also work with volunteers and staff in community centres throughout the country to ensure that they understand the technical aspects of their station and can be easily operated and can troubleshoot problems and issues that come with any new system.   This usually occurs after the construction of a new station, but there were occasions of some stations on the best practices for equipment they already have. I have excellent modern radio, antenna from to microphone technology knowledge. Most of my skills from the self-directed learning and hands-on repair, professional work experience. I use my free time to spend designing and prototyping, much of the electronics.   I have built a great analog and digital systems in laboratory settings, as well as perform the VLSI (very large system integration) IC design with computer-aided programs. I have a lot of computer systems platform, including Windows, Linux, BSD and OSX's broad knowledge. I have streaming audio technology, such as MP3, MP2, Ogg Vorbis, RealAudio and. I am qualified with several languages of scripts and programs, such as C, Java, PHP, SQL, HTML and CSS.   To build and manage the web site. My expertise is 802.11 extends a/b / g wireless and wired Ethernet 802.3 network. I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and learn the employees even if there is no immediate way.   In the hope that some future professional collaboration opportunities. Thank you for your time and attention. I have been considering my roles are often called the Coordinator class. Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.   I would appreciate the opportunity to visit your facility and learn the employees even if there is no immediate way.   It can hopefully some opportunity for professional collaboration in the future.[  Other terms often used for this class would be the intellectual class or the management class.]
