 Reach out when he woke up in the cold darkness and the night in the Woods he touches child sleeping beside him. The dark beyond the darkness of night and the days more than one gray that was transferred. How offensive some cold glaucoma blackout from the world. His hand went up and softly with each breath. He pushed himself off of plastic tarpaulin and blanket and wear this smelly and looked East for any light, but there was none. In a dream from which he awoke he wandered in the cave where the child has his hand. Their light plays over the wet stone wall. As pilgrims in a fable swallowed up and lost among the inner parts of a granite beast. Stone deep led where water flowed and sings. Tolling in the silence, the minutes of the Earth and the hours and the days of the years and without ceasing. They stood on the great stone room lay until black and ancient Lake. The coast from dripping mouth rimstone pools occur far away and stared at light in the eyes of the blind as white and spider eggs dead creature. They swung his head under the water as if to take the essence of what he could not see. Crouching there, pale and naked, translucent, its Alabaster bones in the shadow on the rocks for him to pass up. Her bowels, her heart. The brain that hold in a campaign of opaque glass. The swung her head from left to right and then gave a low moan and turned and shot away and loped silently in the dark. The first light on the left the boy sleeping and grey rose and walked to the road and squatted and studied at the South of the country. Barren, silence, atheist. October was the month she thought, but she was not sure. I hadn't kept a schedule for years. They moved south. There would be no survive another winter here. When this was easy enough to use reflect the glassed is the valley below. Eel everything away in the darkness. The soft ash blowing in loose swirls on the blacktop. He studied what he could see. The segments of the road there under the dead trees. Looking for something to paint. Any movement. A trace of any smoke stand. He lowered the glasses and pull cotton mask from his face wiping her nose on the back of his wrist he and the glass the country again. Then he sat there keep the binoculars and watch the ashen light solidify across the country. The only knew that the child was his warrant. He said: if he is not the word of God God never spoke. The boy back when he was still asleep. 
