 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and the cold of the night he would reach to hit the child sleeping beside him. Dark beyond the darkness and the night before more gray than what each has. If the beginning of some cold glaucoma dimming away the world. His hand rose and fell with each breath softly expensive. Pushed away from PVC linoleum put himself in the stinking blankets, robes and looked towards the East to any light but there was none. In dream start he had he where children wandered in the cave led him. Its light on wet walls flowstone. As pilgrims in a fable swallowed up and lost among the inner parts of a granite beast. Water dripped deep stone chimneys, Sarah. Tolling in the silence, the minutes of the Earth and the hours and the days of the years and without ceasing. Until they were in a large stone which lay Black Lake. And the far shore a creature who has raised his mouth dripping rimstone pool and set in light with dead eyes blind and white as egg spiders. The swung his head low over the water as to the smell of what it could not see. Crouching there pale and naked and translucent Alabaster bone threw up in the shade of the rocks behind it. Their insides, their heartbeat. The brain that pulsed in a boring glass bell. It came from her head to the side and then out a low moan and lurched and off into the darkness and loped soundlessly. With the first light grey he rose and left the sleeping boy and released road and squatted and studied the countries to the South. Barren, silence, atheist. He thought the month of October, but he was not sure. He had kept the calendar years. They move south. There would be no surviving another winter here. Use the binoculars when it was light enough, he is the lower Valley glass. Eel everything away in the darkness. The soft ash blowing in loose swirls over the asphalt. He studied what he could see. The segments of the road where amongst the dead trees. Looking for something to color. Any movement. Smoke trails remained standing. He lowered the glasses and scrapped the cotton mask of his face and wiped his nose on the back of his wrist and then the country again glasses. Then he sat there keep the binoculars and watch the ashen light solidify across the country. He only knew that the child was his. He said: if he is not ever the word of God, God spoke. The boy was still asleep when he got back. 
