 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and the cold of the night he would have touch to touch the child sleeps beside him. Nights dark days outside the darkness and the more together than what had gone before grey. Like some cold blue dimming away in the world. His hand rose softly a each valuable breathing fell. He pushed the plastic tarpaulins and offer their smelly blankets and robes and toward the East looking for any light, but did not. In the dream he had aroused had wandered in a cave where the child took him by the hand. They wet flowstone wall around the light. Like a pilgrim foot and lost to legend around the beast number granitic. Where water dripped deep stone flues and sang. Earth and the hours, minutes, days of it and kept years charged silence. As long as they stood in a great stone room where a dark and ancient Lake. And a creature from its mouth and rimstone pool dripping with dead white and spiders eggs as blind eyes stared at the edges. It was a low head above water as the smell of what I could see. Kneeling there naked, pale, transparent, cast a shadow over the bones of Alabaster on the rocks behind it. Your gut, your heart beat. The brain, a dull glass bells in pulsed. The swung her head from left to right and then gave a low moan and turned and shot away and loped silently in the dark. Squatter he first gray light walked way with the boy sleeping rose, consider the left South. Silent, barren, godless. In the month of October, but thought that he was not sure. For years he had a calendar. They move to the South. There would be no other winter here survive. When the light enough to use the binocular glasses he the valley below. Everything baling away to mark. The soft ash blowing in loose swirls on the blacktop. He studied what he could see. The segments of the road there under the dead trees. The research of what any color. Any movement. A trail of smoke stand. He removed his glasses pushed down the mask from his face, wiped his nose on cotton on the back of his hand, then the State again glassed. Then he just sat there holding the binoculars and sees summer turn Ashen slowly over the ground. He knew the boy was his warrant. He said: if he does not the word of God God never spoken. The boy back when he was still asleep. 
