 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and cold night he would reach out to touch the baby to sleep next to him. Beyond the darkness more grey was dark nights and days of each than what's gone before. Some cool world of away like dimming cataract. His hand rose and fell with each breath soft precious. He pushed away the plastic sail and raised himself in the stinking robes and blankets and looked to the East for some light but there was nobody. In the dream he had awakened he wandered in a cave where the child led by the hand. Highlight play through walls floostoni wet. Swallowed up like pilgrims in a fable and the inner parts of some granitic animal lost. Deep stone flue and sang drops of water. Earth hour minute and in silence and without conflict and years of tolling. Until they stood in a big stone room where lay black and the ancient Lake. And on the far shore creature which stirred his mouth dripping from a pool of rimstoni and stared into the light in the eyes of white lead and blind as the spiders ' eggs. To exit his head low above the water, as if they take the smell of what's been seen. Crouching there pale and naked and translucent, her Alabaster bones raised in shadow on the rocks behind it. Its shit, its beating heart. Pulse of boring glass Bell brain. To exit his head from page to page and then gave a low moan and turned away and loped into the dark lurched out soundlessly. With the first gray light he rose and left the boy sleeping and headed to the road and squatted and studied from the country in the South. Infertile, silent, ungodly. He was 10-month, thought that he wasn't sure. For years there was a calendar. They were moving South. There will be no surviving another winter here. When it was light enough to use the binoculars the glazing of the Valley. All paling away into the murk. Soft ash blowing in eddies on the asphalt. He has learned that he can see. The segments of road there among dead trees. Looking for something out of the color. Any movement. Each track of standing smoke. He lowered his face and the mask from the cups and pulled down the cotton wiped his nose on the back of his wrist, and then again to the glass of the country. Then it was sitting there just hold perspectives and watch ashen kongal daylight on Earth. He knows only that the child was his command. He said: if he is not the word of God is God never spoke. When he returned, the child was still asleep. 
