 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and cold night sleeping next to him he would reach out to touch the child. Beyond the dark nights and more dark grey day each one what was before it. As the onset of a cold glaucoma progression away from the world. His hand rose and fell slowly with each precious breath. Pushed away the plastic canvas and he raised himself in the stinking robes and blankets and looked eastward to any light but there were none. The dream from which he awoke he wandered in the cave in which the child took him in hand. His playing on the walls light wet flowstone. Like pilgrims in the tale among the parts lost swallowed some monster granite inside. Deep stone chimneys where water dripped and sang. Tolling in silence of the globe and times and days and years, constantly. Until she stood in a large stone room where a black and old more lag. And on the distant coast raised a creature that his mouth dripping of the pool and stared into the light with eyes Gours dead white and partially sighted if the eggs of spiders. He swung his head low over the water, as if take the smell of what it could not see. Nude and pale and translucent, Crouching there, its Alabaster box of bones thrown into the shadow of the rocks behind it. Its entrails, his heart beating. Boring glass clock pulses for the brain. He swung his head from side to side and then gave a low moan and turned, and staggered away and silently in the dark past. With the first gray light he climbed and left the child sleeps and came to the road and squatted and studied the country to the South. Sterile, silent, without God. He thought it was the month of October, but he was not sure. He calendar year was not kept. They were moving South. There would be no surviving a new winter here. When it was light enough to use the binoculars he glazed Valley. All gone into the murk paling. Soft ash blowing in the wild across the blacktop swirls. He studied what could see. There is road segments in the trees died. Looking for something of color. Each movement. All traces of quality smoke standing. Lose the glasses and they tore down the cotton of his face mask and wiping his nose on the back of your wrist and then had glazed the country again. Then he was only holding the binoculars and observe the Ashen light over land freeze. He knew only that the child was his command. He said: if it is not something God God never spoke. When he entered the youth was still asleep. 
