 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and the cold of the night he would reach to hit the child sleeping beside him. Further than the dark dark nights and more grey days each to what had gone before. If the beginning of some cold glaucoma dimming away the world. His hand rose and fell gently with each breath valuable. He pushed tarpaulin and raised in stinky clothing and blankets and looked East for any light, but there wasn't one. In the dream he had wandered in the wakinid cave where made him the child. Their light works on the walls wet flowstone. Swallowed a fable and beast in parts between granitic lost like the pilgrims. Deep stone FLUES, where water dripped and sang. Tolling in the silence of the minutes and hours and days and years without cease. While the force in a big room where lay the black stone and the ancient Lake. And the whole creature, which raised his mouth dripping from the shore Fund, and stared into the light with the eyes of dead white rimstone and sightless as eggs, spiders. The swung his head low over the water as to the smell of what it could not see. There are yellow and translucent Alabaster crouching, naked and their bones in the shadow on the rocks behind it. His heart the intestines. The brain that pulsed in a boring glass bell. Moan and shook its head low out tilt, it gave away, and turned dark sound. With the first light gray he rose and left the boy to sleep and went out to the street and sat down and studied the country's South. Sterile, silent, godless. He thought the month of October, but he was not sure. The calendar is not held. You moved south. Will not survive another winter here. It is light enough to use binoculars when she glassed valley below. All paling away in the dark. The soft ash blowing in eddies loose on the asphalt. He studied what he could see. The segments of the road down there among the dead trees. Looking for some color. Any movement. No sign of permanent smoke. He lowered the glasses and scrapped the cotton mask of his face and wiped his nose on the back of his wrist and then the country again glasses. Then he keeps binoculars, look at the time on land, Ashen light, sit. He knew only that the child was its mandate. He said: if he is not God, the word of God, never speak. When he returned the boy he was still sleeping. 
