 When in the Woods in the dark and cold of night, he would reach out to touch a child sleeping beside him. Dark night outside of darkness and light, more than what went before the days each time. World, such as the onset of some cold glaucoma is dimming range. His hands rose and fell with each precious breath slowly. It was no have him apart with a plastic tarp to push yourself introduce stink bathrobes, blankets, seen any light toward the East. In the dream, which had wakened had wandered in the cave, where the child led him by hand. Their light play on the wet Vliets teen walls. As pilgrims in a fable swallowed up and lost between the parties towards the interior of some granitic beast. Deep stone chimneys, where water dripped and sang. Blend in a minute of silence and hours and days and years without interruption. Until they were in a large room of stone that were black and former Lake. And all Bank a creature which drips down his mouth is thrown from the pool travertine cladding and stared into the light with the eyes of dead white and blind as the eggs of spiders. Its head shook as if low water what's invisible scent that is. Squat on there pale and naked and translucent, converted Alabaster bones in the shade on the rocks behind it. In the intestine, beating heart. Brain which throbbing in boring glass Bell. It swings from one side to the other side, and then gives a low moan and walk steadily turning into the dark silent forward. Light grey for the first time he rose and left the children fell asleep out of this road and squat and learning to the countries of the South. Sterile, silent, without God. Thought it was the month of October, but he wasn't sure. He saved one calendar year. They were moving South. There would be no surviving a new winter here. If it were easy enough to use the binoculars, he glazed in the Valley. Under the pile to the distance of all. Soft ash blowing in loose curls on the blacktop. He studied what could be seen. Dead tree road in the middle of the section. Looking for something of color. Each movement. Any traces of permanent smoke. He lowered the glasses and demolished the cotton mask from the face and wiped his nose on the back side again glazed his wrist and then the country of. Then he just sat there holding a pair of binoculars and watch Ashen summer freeze on the ground. He knew only that the child was his command. He said: if it is not the word "God" did not take place. When he came back still asleep the boy.
