 In the darkness and the cold nights in the Woods he woke up he would reach out to touch the children slept next to him. Dark nights dark grey and the days pass more each than what had gone before. As the advent of some cold away on world glaucoma dimming. He stood up hands floated each precious breath. He pushed the sheet itself raised in the stinking robes and blankets and plastic and turned to the East for any light but there was none. In the dream from which he had aroused, he had walked into a cave where the child led him by the hand. Their light on the wet Flowstone walls to play. As pilgrims in fable absorbed and lost among the inner parts of some granitic beast. Fireplaces stone depth where water dripped and sang. Toll in silence the Earth minutes and hours and days and years without ceasing. Until they were in a large stone room where was a black and old Lake. And on the shore of the creature, who lifted his mouth dripping rimstone pool and stared at the light with dead eyes invisible like eggs and white spiders. He switches his head low over the water as if to take the smell of what he could not see. Crouching there pale and naked and transparent, throws him the bones even in shade on marble rocks behind him. The intestines, the beating heart. The brain, which pulsed in the matte glass bell. Swung his head from side to side and gave out a low moan and turned away then Lapid sondlisli in the dark. With the first gray light, he rose and left the young sleep and went out to the streets and hunkered down and studied the land in the South. Sterile, devoid of God. He thought in October but he wasn't sure. He had held no calendar years. They were moving to the South. There will be no surviving another winter here. Though it was quite easy to use binoculars in the Valley under the glass. All paling way in the dark. Soft ash blowing on free swirls over the blacktop. He studied what he could see. The segments of road there among the dead trees. Looking for some color. Any movement. Traces of smoke standing. He reduced cotton shield of glasses and tear down nose from his face to his wrist back, then State. Then you just sat there holding binoculars and watch ashen summer congeal territory. I only knew that the child was his order. He said: If it is not the word of God never spoke. When he returned, the boy still asleep.
