 If he is in the Woods in the dark and the cold of the night woke up he would reach the child sleeping beside him to touch. Dark nights dark and more grey days each of them than what went before. As the occurrence of some cold glaucoma dimming removed the world. His hand rose and fell with each breath soft precious. He joined way the plastic sheeting and increases in the foul-smelling clothes and cover and no light toward the East searched, but there was none. In the dream, from which he had aroused had moved it in a cave where the child led him by the hand. Their light playing over the wet walls of flowstone. As the pilgrims in a fable engulfed and lost among the pieces to the inside of some granitic beast. Deep stone flues, water dripping and sang. The fees in the minutes and hours and days and years, the silence of the Earth without being terminated. Until she stood in a large stone room where a black and old more lag. And on the distant coast raised a creature that his mouth dripping of the pool and stared into the light with eyes Gours dead white and partially sighted if the eggs of spiders. As to what smell could not see it standing on its head low water. Crouching there naked and pale and translucent, its Alabaster bones cast up in the shadow of the rocks behind it. His guts, his beating heart. Brain pulse in a Bell of dull glass. Turn your head from side to side and then he gave a moan low and turned and staggered away and developed silent in the dark. With the first light that rose gray and left the boy sleeping and ventured out into the road and squat and studied the country to the South. Barren, silence, and godless. He believed the month was October, but he wasn't sure. He had not kept a calendar for the years. They were moving South. No there is no surviving another winter here. Valley of light seen through a telescope up and down his face at that time. All baling disappeared in the darkness. Soft ash blowing in swirls loose on asphalt. He sees what I studied him. Dead trees between areas of the road down there. Looking for something of color. Each movement. All traces of permanent smoke. He cut and pulled down by cotton mask glasses from his face and wiped his nose on the back of his wrist and then glass country again. The only telescope on the ground holding and ashen daylight time was sitting there watching. He knew only that the child his arrest warrant. He said: if he is not the word of God is God never spoke. When he got back, the boy was still sleeping. 
