 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and cold of night it will up to touch the child sleeping beside him. Dark nights behind dark grey days and more all in one which has gone before. As the manifestation of some cool fade away world glaucoma. His hand rose and gently dropped with each precious breath. On the exclusion of plastic tarpaulins and raised himself in the robes and stinking blankets and looked towards the East for any light, but there was none. Dream of which he was a Holy cave where his children wakened by hand had wandered into the lead. Their light play on the wet Vliets teen walls. Like the drunk, lost between the inner portion of the beast of some granitic rocks in the allegory Pilgrim. Deep stone chimneys where water dripped and sang. In silence, minutes of time and Earth and with it instead of days of cancellation, towing. Until they stood in the room where a big stone lying in a black and the ancient Lake. Barhok Beach production picked up the dripping from the light, intense eyes and rimstone is distinguishable as the eggs of spiders and died. Head swing it low on the water, what if it smells like fail to see. Crouching there pale and naked and translucent, its Alabaster cast bones place in the shadow on the rocks behind it. Its interior, his heart beating. Brain is pulsating in the dull glass cover. He swung his head from one side to the other and then gave a low moan and turned and found far diving and professional silent in the dark. First light grey with rose and left the guy sleeping and went out to the street and squatted and studied the South country. Do not believe in God, silent, barren land. He thought that the month is the 10th, but he was not certain. He never kept a calendar for years. They were moving South. Will survive another winter here is not that. When it is light enough to use the binoculars it glazed the valley below. Paling in murk everything away. Blowing in the loose spiral is an alternative to the soft gray. He studied what we can see. Sections of road where amongst the trees die down. Search for anything from colors. Each movement. Any trace of conventional cigarettes. He lowered his sunglasses and pulled down cotton mask from his face and wiped his nose on the back of his wrist and then glazed. Then he sat there holding binoculars and watch in the land of grey and white coagulation daylight saving time. His only child found his writ. He said: if it is not the word of God God never said. When he came back, was the young still slept. 
