 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark and the cold of the night he would touch the child sleeping beside him. Nights dark days outside the darkness and the more together than what had gone before grey. As the appearance of some glaucoma cold pushed away from the world. Rose his hand landed softly with each breath. He pushed the plastic tarpaulin, blankets, robes, rose smell sought the light towards the East, but was a man. That he awoke from a dream he had lingered in the cave where the child led him by the hand. The light plays the wet flowstone wall. Like fable swallowed, has lost some of the granitic pilgrim of the heart of the beast. The depth of stone chimneys where water dripped and Ghent. Toll in the silence, the minutes of the Earth and the hours and the days and the years without cease. So she stood in the room where the large stone and Black Lake. And make it from the far Bank pool dripping mouth, staring eyes of dead white, the way of the world spider eggs as a creature. Swung his head low over the water as if to smell what he saw. Cast in shadow on the rock behind the bones of the alabaster Crouching naked and translucent and thin. Gut, the beat. These brain glass Bell boring. He swung his head from side to side, then up and rocked, and loped away soundlessly darkness. The first gray light, left the boy he got up, went to the residence, the State in the South of the road and kneeling. Barren, quiet, to godless. The month of October was, but he was not sure he was thinking. For years he had a calendar. They move to the South. There would not survive another winter here. When the light enough to use the binocular glasses he the valley below. All but far in the murk. Soft ash blowing on the blacktop loose swirls. He studied what he could see. Parts of the way there between the dead trees. To see anything. Any movement. No trace of smoke. He has glasses and his face mask pulled down her wrist and cotton on the back of your nose smashed and then land again glassed. Then he just sat there holding the binoculars and seeing the Ashy daylight strikes on the ground. He knew that the baby his warrant. He said: he heard the story if not a God God's Word. The boy was also asleep when he got back. 
