 When he woke up in the Woods in the dark, cold night is to touch a child sleeping beside him. And beyond the darkness of the night dark grey, than each one had done before. As some cold dark left the world of onset of glaucoma. His hand rose and fell with each breath beautiful gently. He pushed away the plastic sail and raised himself in the stinking robes and blankets and looked to the East for some light but there was nobody. In the dream from which he had aroused, he had walked into a cave where the child led him by the hand. The light plays on the wet walls of travertine. As pilgrims in fable lost between active part some of the granitic and swallowed up the beast. Low stone exhaust pipes, where the water was dripping and sang. Toll in silence, minutes of Earth and the hours and days and years constantly. Until they stood in a large room of stone where you put a black and old Lake. And at the end of Earth a creature that raised her mouth dripping from the pool of Gours and securely in the light with dead eyes white and blind as the spiders eggs. He swung his head low over the water, as if you take the scent that he could not see. Crouching there pale and naked and translucent, her Alabaster bones raised in shadow on the rocks behind it. The intestines, the beating heart. The brain that pulsated in a dull glass Bell. He swung his head from side to side and then gave a low moan and turned and lurched away soundlessly and developed in the dark. With the first gray light he rose and left the boy sleeping and headed to the road and squatted and studied from the country in the South. Infertile, silent, ungodly. He thought the month was October but was not sure. He kept a calendar for the year. They are moving South. There will be no surviving another winter here. When it was light enough to use binoculars that glass in the valley below. All Palisade away in the murk. Soft ash blow in loose swirls on the asphalt. He learned what he could see. Segments of the highway there among the dead trees. What you are looking for color. Any movement. Each track of standing smoke. It lowers the glasses and the cotton of his face mask and wiped his nose on the back of his wrist and then glass of the country once more. And then he just sitting holding binoculars and watch the light ash to overlay on the Earth. He knew only the child was his order. He said: If God is not God's Word never talked. When he returned the boy still slept. 
