 The purpose of this article is acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) of was to explain outbreak sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP) prevalence of respiratory complications following specifically. Documented apnea breathing stop as. Although any apnea during sleep is abnormal, the emergence of four or more episodes of apnea during one hour of sleep required medical care. Etiologic factors gave authors the severity of OSA results, intervention after using a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). After the overview of retrospective data, had four case studies covering the four patients with clinically significant and prolonged postoperative airway peri-and/or dysfunction. These four customer intervention, including CPAP and discusses its positive results. It's a retrospective review graphics of 58 consecutive patients who underwent surgery of SP in a single clinic between July 1989 and April 1995. Patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. overt postoperative airway dysfunction perioperative and/or; 2. Micrognathia with or without an identified syndrome; 3. Perinatal respiratory distress; and 4. Perinatal feeding problems. Gives the distribution of diagnosed patients by the author. 4 display case using the CPAP to offset the positive outcomes of the OSA. The authors conclude by giving their opinion that SP a superior method for correct velopharyngeal dysfunction in patients with risk for airway dysfunction. They must understand that this claim is not supported by the literature. The authors list 4 possible risk factors, they by met experience: 1. Microretrognathia, 2. a history of perinatal respiratory dysfunction, 3 early in the SP surgery and 4. upper respiratory infection. A fourth factor is risk factor for potential risk because the authors state that the patient's respiratory status may not operate if they contract an upper respiratory infection. The authors conclude that, in their book the complete its practice support using the CPAP as treatment for the management of respiratory problem "useful noninvasive Tool in the" at risk "patients without sacrificing the surgical benefit of better speech" VPD (188). This article is interesting. Reach a conclusion of the mostly hearsay. Not to say that they are not proven in the papers published elsewhere; However, they do not provide research to prove the conclusions they reach. Conclusions regarding the use of CPAP and the alleged superiority of SP surgery anecdotal according to what works best in practice. Unfortunately, most of the centres hold their own views on best practices. This document would have better served to show the figures and data supporting their claim rather than acts as a blog on their preferred methodology. The document gives a good overview of what actual procedure SP. It also provides good data about customers that may possibly arise postoperative problems. This document is the most important for the palate and craniofacial teams. It would have been better had they timely disclosed that they were the first paper to try to correlate carotid artery abnormalities velocardiofacial syndrome.
