 The purpose of this article is to describe the occurrence of acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), respiratory complications of pharyngeal sphincteroplasty (SP), particularly popular. Apnea is described as the respiratory failure. All breathing occurring during sleep is abnormal, but apnea four or more episodes occurs, medical attention is required during the one-hour sleep. The authors gave the etiologic factors contributing to the severity of OSA and the intervention of the results, which are continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) after use. Following the presentation of the retrospective data, given four case studies covering the four patients with clinically significant surroundings and long-and/or dysfunction in the duct after surgery. These four clients including CPAP and its positive outcome interventions are discussed. This is a single clinic between July 1989 and April 1995 SP surgery in 58 consecutive patients recall a chart review. Patients have one or more of the following conditions: 1. Peri-operative and/or open postoperative airway dysfunction; 2 or uncertain syndrome;. micrognathia 3, respiratory distress syndrome in perinatal period; and 4. Perinatal feeding difficulties. The authors give the distribution of patients after diagnosis. 4 case studies are given to show the positive results using CPAP to counteract the OSA. The authors conclude by giving their opinion that SP is a superior method to treat dysfunction correct velopharyngeal in patients at risk of respiratory dysfunction. They recognize that this claim is not necessarily supported by cited. The authors list the possible risk factors, which are encountered by 4 experience: 1. History of perinatal respiratory dysfunction, microretrognathia, 2., 3., 4., and an early age at surgery SP upper respiratory infection. The fourth risk factor is given as a potential risk factor, because the authors noted that the condition of the patient, the respiratory compromised if they are suffering from upper respiratory can become infections. Finish the book on paper before concluding in the exercise that it promotes the use of country programme action plan (CPAP) noninvasive therapy Assistant useful for managing the problem of airway in "at risk ' patients without sacrificing the VPD benefit speech improve the clarity of the surgical" (188). This paper is interesting. The majority of conclusions reached are anecdotal. This is not to say that it isn't demonstrated in articles published elsewhere; However, these authors do not provide research to test the findings. SP surgery and conclusions regarding the use of CPAP perception of superiority is anecdote according to works by the author of best practice. Unfortunately, most centers hold their opinions about the best practice. This paper would have been better served to show the numbers and data to support its application rather then acting as their preferred methodology for the blog. In addition to this, the actual process of paper as a good overview of SP. It also provides good data, it is, you might encounter problems after surgery clients. This paper is more important for the taking into account by cleft palate and craniofacial teams. It would have been better had they divulge at the beginning, they were the first paper trying to correlate the carotid arteries for velocardiofacial syndrome abnormalities.
