 The goal of this article was to describe the prevalence of respiratory complications at the sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular the occurrence of acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Apnea is described as the cessation of breathing. Although each that occur during sleep apnea is an abnormal, requires a copy of four or more episodes of apnea during a one-hour sleep medical attention. The authors gave the Etiologic factors contributing to the severity of OSA and intervention results after using continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). After the introduction of retrospective data, received four case studies covering the four patients with clinically significant and prolonged peri - or postoperative respiratory dysfunction. These four clients had intervention, including CPAP and its positive results are discussed. This is a retrospective chart review of patients respectively 58 who underwent surgery at the clinic one SP between July 1989 and April 1995. The patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. perioperative manifest or postoperative respiratory dysfunction; 2 Micrognathia with or without an identified syndrome; 3. Perinatal respiratory distress; and 4. Perinatal, feeding difficulties. The authors give the distribution of patients by diagnosis. 4 case studies are given to the positive results using CPAP to OSA. The authors conclude giving his opinion that SP is a superior method for patients correct velopharyngeal dysfunction with risk for respiratory dysfunction. They recognize that this assertion is not necessarily supported by the literature. The authors list 4 possible risk factors, which they have encountered through experience: 1. microretrognathia, 2. a history of perinatal respiratory dysfunction, 3. age on SP surgery, and 4. infection of the upper respiratory tract. The fourth risk factor was mentioned as a potential risk factor, because the authors mention that the patient airway status can be compromised if they contract an infection of the upper respiratory tract. The authors conclude their paper concluded that in their practice the use of CPAP as promoting a "extraordinary useful non-invasive treatment for the management of the airway problem in the" endangered ' VPD patients without sacrificing the surgical benefit of improved speech intelligibility (188). This paper is interesting. Most of the conclusions reached in the anecdotes. This is not to say that they are not proven in published elsewhere; However, these authors provide no research to prove the conclusions that they reach. Conclusions regarding the use of CPAP, and the perceived superiority of surgery SP narrative according to work better in practice. Unfortunately most of the centres have their own opinions on best practices. This paper would have been better to show numbers and data supporting their claim instead and then as a blog on the preferred methodology. Other than this the paper gives a good overview about the actual SP-procedure. Problems with good data gives occur after surgery it's clients also. This paper by cleft palate/craniofacial teams is main incriminating. It better they have long said that they trying to velocardiofacial syndrome associated carotid arterial anomalies in the first document.
