 The purpose of this article was to describe the prevalence of respiratory complications after sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular, the acute obstructive sleep (OSA). Apnea is called stop breathing. Although any apnea that occur during sleep, the presence of four or more episodes of apnea during sleep one hour requires medical attention. Continuous positive airway pressure etiologic factors author (CPAP) after the severity of OSA and intervention outcomes. After a review of historical data, were given four case studies covering the four patients with clinically significant and prolonged and/or dysfunction of postoperative respiratory tract. These four customer intervention including CPAP, Dan was his positive results. It's a graphic retrospective review of 58 consecutive patients who underwent surgery of SP in a single clinic between July 1989 and April 1995. Patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. open the perioperative and postoperative respiratory dysfunction; 2. Micrognathia with or without diagnosed syndrome; 3. Perinatal respiratory; and 4. Perinatal feeding difficulties. Patients diagnosed by distribution of authors. 4-stories to show positive results to using CPAP against OSA. The authors conclude that, in their view, that SP is an excellent method of velopharyngeal dysfunction in patients with respiratory dysfunction risk correctly. You see that this claim is not necessarily supported by the literature. 4 possible risk factor they have come through the experience beyond the authors list: 1., 2. Perinatal respiratory disease microretrognathia, 3 a history. At age 4, SP and surgery. Upper respiratory infections. They are listed if contract respiratory infections at the top of the State author jeopardize the status of the patient's airway from as potential risk factors, risk factors for fourth. Their behavior as they promote the use of CPAP by closing your paper writer, a "management of airway problems end to useful noninvasive treatment benefit-risk surgical patients" VPD "help better speech intelligibility without sacrificing the" (189). It is interesting, in this document. Most of the findings of the narrative. This does not mean that they are shown in the documents that are published elsewhere; These authors, however, do not provide the research to demonstrate the conclusions they reach. CPAP use about what the alleged superiority of conclusions and SP surgery in behavior best writers according to anecdotal. Unfortunately, most centers keep your own comments on best practices. This document may have been better served to display the numbers and data, and support their demands, and then as a blog on their preferred method. For other good overview of real SP procedures gives the paper. It also gives good data regarding customers who may be experiencing problems. This book is the most important for the consideration of the cleft palate/craniofacial teams. It would have been better had they disclosed from the beginning that they were the first document to try to establish a correlation between carotid artery anomalies velocardiofacial syndrome.
