 The goal of this article was to describe the prevalence of respiratory complications at the sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular the occurrence of acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The apnea is described as the cessation of breathing. Although each that occur during sleep apnea is an abnormal, requires a copy of four or more episodes of apnea during a one-hour sleep medical attention. The authors gave the Etiologic factors contributing to the severity of OSA and intervention results after using a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Overview of retrospective data, received the four case studies of the four patients with clinically significant and sustained period and/or post-operative airway dysfunction. These four clients had intervention including CPAP and its positive results are discussed. This is a retrospective chart review of 58 consecutive patients who underwent surgery at a single clinic between SP July 1989 and April 1995. Patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. open perioperative and/or post-operative airway dysfunction; 2. Micrognathia with or without an identifyed syndrome; 3. perinatal shortness of breath; and 4. Perinatal feeding difficulties. The authors give the distribution of patients by diagnosis. 4 case studies are given to the positive results using CPAP to OSA. And the authors conclude by giving their opinion superior to SP mode bug vilovaringel in patients at risk for bugs in the airway. They recognize that this assertion is not necessarily supported by the literature. The authors list 4 possible risk factors, which they have encountered through experience: 1. microretrognathia, 2. a history of perinatal respiratory dysfunction, 3. age on SP surgery, and 4. infection of the upper respiratory tract. Because the authors state that the patient's airway status can be compromised if they have an upper respiratory infection as a possible risk factor in four risk factors as listed. The authors end their role through the conclusion that in his practice, promote the use of CPAP as a "complement useful non-invasive treatment to manage the problem of airway in the" risk ' patients VPD without sacrificing the surgical benefit of improved intelligibility "(188)." This paper is interesting. The majority of the findings is anecdotal. This does not mean that it did not demonstrate in papers published elsewhere; however, these authors do not provide research to substantiate findings. The conclusions about the use of CPAP and superiority seen Ms surgery are anecdotal according to what works best in the practice of the authors. Unfortunately, most private centres on their views on best practices. This paper would have been better served have, numbers and data support their claim rather then as a blog on their preferred methods show. Otherwise, give the paper a good overview on the actual procedure SP. It also gives good information regarding clients that perhaps you may experience problems with postoperatively. This role is more important for its consideration by the palate split/craniofacial teams. It was the first paper he divulged early on carotid artery abnormalities velocardiofacial syndrome attempted to correlate would have been better.
