 The purpose of this article the respiratory complications sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular, following severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) of the event was to describe. Tagged apnea stops breathing. Although each breath that occur during normal sleep, the occurrence of episodes four or more breath during one hour of sleep requires medical care. The authors gave etiological factors of the severity of OSA results and intervention after the use of continuous positive pressure (CPAP) respiratory. Retrospective data overview, four case studies were given medically significant and prolonged/Perry-after four patients with airway disease or cover. These four customer intervention including CPAP and discusses positive results. This SP is one 4/1995 58 consecutive cases of retrospective chart reviews. Patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. open of perioperative airway disease and/or post; 2. a recognized syndrome with Micrognathia or without; 3. Perinatal respiratory distress; 4. feeding difficulties and Perinatal. The authors provide a breakdown of patients on the diagnosis. 4 To counteract the case of CPAP OSA shows positive results. Authors conclude their SP is the correct ventilation of patients with velopharyngeal dysfunction dysfunction of the superior method of risk. They also know that may not support literature. Members of the list of possible risk factors, 4 have the experience: 1. microretrognathia, 2. history of perinatal respiratory function, 3. age at SP, and 4. Upper respiratory infection. A fourth potential risk as the risk appears, because the authors state that the State of the patient's airway may be at risk if they contract respiratory infection. Completed by concluding that actually promote the use of CPAP as their authors of their paper, "useful non-invasive noninvasive treatment assistance to manage the airway problems," risk ' increased voice clarity without sacrificing benefits of surgery degree VPD patients "(188). This book is interesting. Most of the findings of anecdotal. Papers published elsewhere it says that they are not proven; However, these authors provide research to prove the conclusion they reach. Best working practice, author based on hearsay CPAP use findings, and SP clear advantages of surgery. Unfortunately, most of the Central hold opinions about recommended. Number of tasks and their claims of better paper neither acting as a blog on the preferred method to show the data would have been. Other that this, the book gives a good overview on the current procedure of Ms. There are also good data about customers that you might postoperative encounter problems. Cleft palate/craniofacial teams this paper to be the most important. It would be better to have disclosed sooner that they first document attempts to correlate the carotid artery anomalies velocardiofacial syndrome.
