 The purpose of this article was to describe the prevalence of respiratory complications after sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular, the obstructive apnea acute onset of sleep (OSA). Breath is the cessation of breathing. Although any abnormal occurring during sleep apnea, sleep apnea during an hour of four or more episodes of any frequency required medical attention. Authors to the etiological factors in OSA and intervention outcomes after the continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) uses severity. After the overview of retrospective data, had four case studies covering the four patients with clinically significant and prolonged postoperative airway peri-and/or dysfunction. These four clients including CPAP interventions discussed its positive results. This is a retrospective chart review of 66 consecutive patients underwent a single clinic between July 1989 the SP in April 1995. Patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. overt postoperative airway dysfunction perioperative and/or; 2. Micrognathia with or without an identified syndrome; 3. Perinatal respiratory distress; and 4. Perinatal feeding problems. Through diagnosis, patient distribution. 4 case studies of positive results to using CPAP OSA response. The authors conclude by giving their opinion that SP a superior method for correct velopharyngeal dysfunction in patients with risk for airway dysfunction. It recognizes that this claim is supported by necessary literature. 4 Risk factors, that experience, they come across the list of sponsors: 1 microretrognathia, 2 a perinatal history of respiratory dysfunction, 3 early age to Ms surgery and 4. upper respiratory tract infection. The fourth risk factors as a potential risk factor, because the author's description of the patient's airway status may become damaged, upper respiratory tract infection they contract. In practice, the authors concluded that they promote the use of a CPAP finish their paper "useful non-invasive treatment of auxiliary management of airway problems" high-risk ' patients 73,900 vehicles a day without sacrificing surgical benefit of improved speech intelligibility "(188). This paper is interesting. Most of the findings are unofficial. This does not mean that they are not recognized in documents published elsewhere; However, these authors do not provide research to prove the conclusions they reach. Conclusions regarding the use of the perceived superiority of CPAP SP are anecdotal analysis based on the best practice of connectors. Is, unfortunately, most centres hold their own view of best practices. This document would have better served to show the figures and data supporting their claim rather than acts as a blog on their preferred methodology. Besides, the paper to give a good overview of the procedure SP. It also provides data regarding customers who may eventually encounter problems after the operation. This paper is very important for the testing of cleft palate/kraniofaziale team. It would have been better had they timely disclosed that they were the first paper to try to correlate carotid artery abnormalities velocardiofacial syndrome.
