 The purpose of this article is to describe the prevalence of respiratory following sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP) complications, in particular, the presence of acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Apnea is described as the end of respiration. Although any occur during sleep apnea is an anomaly in an hour of four or more episodes that occur during sleep, apnea in need of medical attention. Author OSA etiological factors and intervention outcomes gave the severity level of the following: use of continuous positive airway pressure ? CPAP ?. Overview: a retrospective data covering the four clinically significant given the four case studies and long term perioperative and postoperative airway obstruction patients. Intervention including CPAP had these four clients and his positive results will be discussed. This is a retrospective chart review July 1989 and April 1995 that 58 consecutive patients a single clinic in SP had surgery. Patients with one or more of the following conditions: 1 outright perioperative and postoperative airway obstruction;. 2. Presence of micrognathia in particular syndrome; 3. Breathing during the perinatal period. 4. Feeding difficulties of the surroundings. The authors give the distribution of patients at diagnosis. 4. case studies are provided to show positive results using the CPAP face OSA. The author is correct nose throat cavity function insufficiency patients airway SP failure risks cost-effectively and concluded by giving his opinion. Recognize that this claim is not necessarily supported by the literature. Authors lists 4 possible risk factors that they came through experience: 1. microretrognathia, 2. the history of perinatal respiratory dysfunction, 3. young Chirurgie, and in SP 4. upper respiratory tract infections. The fourth factor is as a potential risk factor, because the authors explain that status can be compromised patients airway, if it is a infection of the upper respiratory system contract. "The authors end their paper in concluding that in their practice, they promote the use of the PPC as a" processing aid non-invasive useful to handle the problem of the respiratory tract in the "at risk ' patients VPD without sacrificing the surgical benefit of better intelligibility" (188). This is interesting in the paper. The majority of the conclusions reached are anecdotal. This is not to say that they are not in newspapers, which elsewhere published has been proven; However these authors offer not research to prove the conclusions, what, that you can reach. Conclusions as regards the use of CPAP and the perceived superiority of the SP are unofficial according to what works best for surgery in practice the authors. Unfortunately, most centers have their own opinions about best practice. This article would have served better to show the figures and data supporting their application rather then acting as a blog on their preferred method. That is not this paper give a good overview of the current procedure of SP. Also provides high quality data relating to clients, with which you can encounter problems postoperatively. This is to consider in craniofacial and cleft palate in this paper an important team. I think that they had first tried to paper leak associated with velocardiofacial syndrome of carotid artery in the early stages is good.
