 The purpose of this article was to describe the prevalence of respiratory complications after sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular the incidence of acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Apnea is described as the cessation of breathing. Although sleep apnea occurs during sleep unusually, is an occurrence of four or more episodes of apnea during one hour sleep medical attention required. The book was made into a serious outcome factors atiologik OSA and intervention after the use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). An overview of retrospective data, the following four case studies covering the four clinical significant and long-term patients with peri-or postoperative airway dysfunction. These four clients had intervention including CPAP and his positive results are discussed. This is a retrospective chart review of 58 patients who underwent surgical SP consecutive to one single clinic between July 1989 and April 1995. The patients had one or more of the following criteria: 1. the clear and Postoperative respiratory dysfunction of Perioperative/or; 2. Micrognathia, with or without the syndrome have been identified; 3. the perinatal respiratory distress; and 4. Perinatal feeding difficulties. The authors give the distribution of patients by diagnosis. 4 case studies are included to show positive results to using CPAP for OSA. The authors conclude by their opinion, the SP is a superior method for correct Velopharyngeal dysfunction in patients at risk for respiratory dysfunction. They recognize that this claim is not necessarily supported by the literature. Author list 4 potential risk factors, has encountered experiences: 1. microretrognathia?2? History of perinatal respiratory insufficiency, 3. SP surgery and early age of 4. Upper respiratory tract infections. The fourth risk factor was mentioned as a potential risk factor, because the authors mention that the patient airway status can be compromised if they contract an infection of the upper respiratory tract. The authors complete their paper by concluding that they promote in their practice the use of CPAP as a "useful noninvasive treatment addition for the management of the problem of the respiratory tract in the" at-risk "VPD patients without sacrificing the surgical benefit of improved speech intelligibility" (188). This paper is interesting. The majority of conclusions reached are anecdotal. This is not to say that they don't prove other published papers, however, these authors do not provide research to substantiate their conclusions. The conclusions regarding the use of CPAP and the perceived superiority of the SP surgery works are anecdotal what best in practice of the authors. Unfortunately, most centres hold their own opinion about best practices. This document will be better served Showing numbers and data supporting their claim, rather then acting like a blog on their preferred methodology. Other than this the paper gives a good overview about the actual SP-procedure. It also gives good information regarding clients that possibly there problems can occur postoperatively. This paper by cleft palate/craniofacial teams is main incriminating. It would have been better had disclosed from the beginning were the first paper to try to correlate with velocardiofacial syndrome carotid artery abnormalities.
