 The purpose of this article was to describe the prevalence of respiratory complications after sphincter pharyngoplasty (SP), in particular, the emergence of acute obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Apnea is described as breathing to stop. Although any occurring during sleep apnea is abnormal, the appearance of four or more episodes of one hour of sleep apnea requires medical attention. The authors gave Etiologic factors in the severity of OSA and intervention results use continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Following the presentation of the retrospective data, received four case studies of four patients with peri - clinically significant and prolonged or postoperative respiratory dysfunction. These four clients had intervention including CPAP and discusses their positive results. This is a retrospective chart review of 58 patients who underwent surgery in the same hospital between SP'S July 1989 and April 1995. The hospital was the one or more of the following criteria: 1. the postcard perioperative and/or function of postoperative airway; 2. Micrognathia with or without a recognized syndrome; 3. perinatal respiratory distress; And 4. Perinatal feeding difficulties. The book gives the distribution of patients by diagnosis. 4 Case studies received, show the positive results with CPAP to counteract OSA. The authors conclude that patients at risk for airway disease SP in velopharyngeal dysfunction is a better way to give their opinion. They recognize that this assertion is not supported by the necessary literature. List of Book 4 potential risk factors, you may come across through experience: 1. mikroritrognathia, 2. a history of respiratory flaw, 3. Early surgery SP, 4. Upper respiratory tract infection. The fourth factor of risk is considered as a potential risk factor, as the authors state that the State of the patient of the airway may become compromised if they contract an infection of the upper respiratory tract. The authors end their paper, concluding that in their practice, they promote the use of CPAP as "useful non-invasive treatment for associate management problems of respiratory tract in patients ' risk ' VPD, without prejudice to the surgical benefit improvement of speech (188). This paper is interesting. Most of the conclusions are anecdotal. This is not to say that they are not proven in papers published elsewhere; These authors, however, offer no research to prove that the conclusions that they reach. The conclusions regarding the use of CPAP and the alleged superiority of SP are anecdotal according to what the best surgery in practice of the authors works. Unfortunately, their opinion holds most Center best practices. This paper has already have more to show numbers and data support on the grounds that enough, and then their preferred methodology, with whom blog. Other than this does give a good overview of the actual SP-process the paper. Even customers who can possibly encounter problems regarding good postoperatively data. This document is an update of the most important was considered by the cleft palate/craniofacial teams. It would have been better had they reveals early on that it was the first attempt to link carotid artery abnormalities of vilokardiovasial syndrome.
